Ukraine, the second-largest country by area, was born as an independent nation after the collapse of the Soviet Union in 1991. At that point, the nation had inherited a huge stockpile of nuclear weapons – 5000 warheads—far more than what Britain, France or China possessed. Out of these 10 were thermonuclear warheads, far more powerful than those used in Hiroshima or Nagasaki.

Under Western pressure Ukraine agreed to disarm itself by relocating much of the arms back to Russia. Smaller warheads were not very difficult to transport, but the long-range ones, some of which weighed over 100 tons, were not easy to be moved.  

In June 1996, Ukraine completed its nuclear disarmament by giving up all weapons inherited from the Soviet empire when Western countries, especially the US, assured the country security. The diplomatic activity (known as the Budapest Memorandum) was considered a triumph of arms control by diplomats and peace activists and Ukraine became a role model of nuclear disarmament.
  
Shortly after Ukraine became a non-nuclear state, the US, the UK and even Russia pledged to respect its independence, sovereignty and also the “existing borders of Ukraine.” The memorandum promised to maintain Ukraine’s political independence and territorial integrity. It was also assured of assistance should it become a “victim of aggression” and seek intervention from the UN Security Council.  
  
Some defence experts in the US and Ukraine, however, had questioned the rationale of the country’s complete nuclear disarmament. They had argued that Ukraine’s deadly nuclear warheads could serve as a strong deterrent if Russia, or any other country, attacks Ukraine.  

Today Ukraine regrets that in the memorandum none of the promises were legally binding guarantees, or a formal treaty ratified by the US Senate. What was considered a diplomatic feat in 1996, now, 25 years later, seems to be a collective failure of the nations— everything undone by an autocrat like Vladimir Putin. When Russian troops invaded Crimea in 2014 and unleashed a proxy war in Ukraine, Putin had summarily discarded the Budapest Memorandum as a useless document.     
 
READ MORE: 

https://apnews.com/article/russia-ukraine-europe-russia-nuclear-disarmament-disarmament-777aab2d375f3d3fed15dc7519783826

https://theconversation.com/ukraine-got-a-signed-commitment-in-1994-to-ensure-its-security-but-can-the-us-and-allies-stop-putins-aggression-now-173481

https://www.nytimes.com/2022/02/05/science/ukraine-nuclear-weapons.html