Rick Riordan’s Percy Jackson series played a huge role in my love of Greek mythology – the modern take on heroes and myths make them easier for a young audience to understand, and there are plenty of Easter eggs for those who already know their myths. The Lightning Thief kicks off the series wonderfully, introducing a loveable cast of characters that will stay with you for a long time.

Percy is a hero who’s brave and loyal for all the right reasons – his love for his family, both blood and found, make him a genuine and lovable protagonist. He isn’t the kind of hero who is unwilling dragged through his own story; he becomes immersed in this world along with the reader, and he quickly comes to love his fantastical new life and the people that come with it. The supporting cast is just as strong and substantial: Annabeth is never reduced to a damsel-in-distress, and she’s admired for her intelligence and strength rather than looks.
The quests the heroes must embark on throughout the series are direct parallels to Ancient Greek myths, but they feel fresh and new from the eyes of these young modern heroes. From the first novel, the plot is engaging and exciting, appealing to anyone who’s ever felt like they didn’t belong. Between all of the action, magic and riddles, it’s a truly heart-warming story about finding friends who eventually become family, and houses that eventually become homes.

Riordan started the series as a way to help his dyslexic son feel like he could be a hero too; the series has become more progressive and inclusive as it goes along, reaching out to kids who struggle to see themselves in stories.
If you enjoyed the Percy Jackson series, it only gets better from there. Heroes of Olympus takes place in the same world, followed by Trials of Apollo. For Egyptian mythology, there’s The Kane Chronicles, and for Norse mythology, Magnus Chase and the Gods of Asgard. If that isn’t enough for you, Riordan has also written some smaller books branching off from the Percy Jackson series.