Along the Poland-Ukraine border, Polish volunteers have been driving Ukrainian refugees to local train stations, or directly to cities like Warsaw.

Other Poles are doing their volunteer work online or at train stations and airports, matching Ukrainian refugees with perhaps the most generous volunteers of all: those who are hosting some of the more than 2 million Ukrainians had fled their beseiged country, in their own homes.

The largest refugee flow in Europe since the Yugoslav wars of the 1990s – has elicited an enormous volunteer humanitarian effort in Europe, particularly in Poland, as well as in Germany, Moldova and Romania.

A diffuse and widespread movement of millions of people that’s operating in several countries and independently of established refugee assistance institutions is apparently meeting many needs quite quickly.

As someone who has conducted research in southeastern Poland since 1992 and studied humanitarian work since 2014, I have long observed that digital advances are making it easier to crowdsource aid. And to assess how these arrangements are working, I’m going to conduct interviews along the Polish-Ukrainian border in March 2022, with both volunteers and professional humanitarians.

Stark contrast

What’s going on in Poland and other countries welcoming Ukrainian refugees starkly contrasts with systems that arose decades ago. Since the late 1940s, governments have largely funded aid to refugees, albeit funneling that money through independent or United Nations agencies. For example, more than two-thirds of the roughly US$31 billion in humanitarian funding worldwide for refugees and disaster relief in 2021 went to U.N. agencies.

To be sure, these institutions are getting money to assist with Ukraine’s crisis and help the refugees who are fleeing it. Within days of Russia’s invasion, the United Nations had received more than $40 million in charitable donations from people and corporations, including $5 million from Amazon.

I see several disadvantages of highly concentrated and large-scale aid for refugees.

Read full story at The Conversation:
https://theconversation.com/a-wave-of-grassroots-humanitarianism-is-supporting-millions-of-ukrainian-refugees-178584

Image Credits:
https://www.gettyimages.com/detail/news-photo/march-2022-berlin-two-women-offer-at-the-main-station-for-news-photo/1238921835