The relationship between newcomers and the Canadian economy involves three key pillars: job availability, a sufficient population of working age and affordable housing. All three pillars must be supported by the government — if one is missing, the entire system collapses.

While Canada has always relied on newcomers for population growth because of its low birth rate, both housing affordability and job availability tend to fluctuate much more drastically.

In the past, Canadian newcomers have struggled to find quality employment because of tight job markets and credential recognition barriers. As such, many newcomers have found themselves underemployed in gig jobs and part-time minimum wage positions.

However, the recent labour shortage, precipitated by the retirement of the baby boomers and compounded by the pandemic, has resulted in a boon of available jobs for newcomers.

With a low national birth rate and a high labour demand, immigration is more important than ever to sustain and grow the Canadian economy.

To accomplish such a goal, Canada’s department of immigration has set a target to admit between 950,000 and 1,260,000 new permanent residents over the next few years. Canada needs to ensure these new residents have safe, secure and affordable places to call home when they arrive.

Housing pillar still unsupported
While Canada now has jobs available for newcomers, and the immigration policies needed to fill those job vacancies, immigrants and migrants are still struggling with finding places to live. Rapidly escalating housing costs and low housing availability are a lethal combination for newcomers.

A woman walking past a row of real estate listing signs on a lawn

In spite of more new units being built than ever before, as household size continues to shrink, more units are needed to house the same population size. Ontario needs to build one million homes, and Vancouver 156,000, over the next decade to address the housing gap and accommodate families who are struggling with housing stability.

Read more: https://theconversation.com/canada-needs-to-build-more-affordable-housing-for-newcomers-184420