Traffic delays are expected across Sydney this morning as hundreds of bus drivers walk off the job.

The industrial action, which includes a rally this morning, is part of a dispute between transport unions and the state government over pay and conditions. 

Bus services will run to a reduced timetable in the inner-west, The Hills district as well as north, south and Western Sydney.

Bhargav Patel was travelling into the city for work at a bar and found out about the strike this morning. 

"I'm deeply affected because I need to be in Sydney by 10 o'clock," he said. 

"I'm going to be very late for work and my manager will be disappointed.

"Due to this, I will lose some money as well as some reputation as well."

Mr Patel said while he empathises with the bus drivers, "strike should be the last option".

Sally Ramirez's journey from Castle Hill into the city usually takes an hour but will take closer to two today. 

"I usually get the one bus from home to the city but now I've got to get a couple of busses," she said. 

"It's a bit annoying, it's going to take longer."

James Park from Rouse Hill said he supported the drivers despite the inconvenience.

"They want more money, so they've got to do what they've got to do," he said.

Services in the Hunter, Central Coast and Blue Mountains will also be impacted.

All other public transport is expected to be impacted by the flow-on effects of the strike.

Transport Workers Union (TWU) NSW and the Rail, Tram and Bus Union members are demanding capped driving shifts, mandated breaks, violence training and pay standards.

TWU NSW secretary Richard Olsen said the government should take responsibility. 

"Drivers are driving buses owned by the NSW government, the bus routes and the bus stops are set by the NSW government, yet the government claims no responsibility for safety and the conditions of the workers who operate the buses," Mr Olsen said. 

https://www.abc.net.au/news/2022-04-11/bus-drivers-demand-better-pay-and-conditions/100981282