PTSD sufferering? Text data alone reliably diagnosis PTSD
The University of Alberta researchers used text data to develop a machine learning model to identify persons with PTSD. The approach might one day be used to help health practitioners discover and diagnose PTSD or other mental health illnesses using telemedicine platforms.

The project's lead researcher, psychiatry PhD student Jeff Sawalha, used text from a dataset generated by USC's Institute for Creative Technologies. Sentiment analysis includes classifying enormous amounts of data, like tweets, into positive and negative sentiments.

"We wanted to look at the sentiment analysis from this dataset to see whether we could appropriately identify or distinguish persons with PTSD," Sawalha added.

The USC dataset contains 250 semi-structured interviews done through video conference with 188 persons without PTSD and 87 with PTSD.

Sawalha and his team identified PTSD patients based on their verbal reactions, which were mostly neutral or negative.

"This aligns with a lot of the emotional and PTSD material. They dull their feelings and don't speak too much. Others express their unpleasant sentiments."

Yes, it is a lengthy procedure. Even basic phrases like "I didn't detest that" might be difficult to identify, according to Russ Greiner, study co-author and founding scientific director of the Alberta Machine Intelligence Institute. The fact that Sawalha could infer PTSD from text data alone opens the door to applying similar algorithms to other datasets with different mental health diseases in mind.

"Text data is so omnipresent, available, and abundant," Sawalha added. "With this much data, machine learning may be better able to identify some of the nuanced patterns that help classify persons with a certain mental condition."

The next step is to work with U of A collaborators to investigate if adding voice or motion data might help expand the model. Other neurological conditions, like Alzheimer's, and some mental health problems, like schizophrenia, have a strong linguistic component, Sawalha added.