Newcastle United's 2021–22 season was a rollercoaster ride that saw them go from facing
another catastrophic Premier League relegation to being the world's wealthiest team.

The campaign began in the same way as any other. dislike of owner Mike Ashley, misgivings
about Steve Bruce's management style, and a marked lack of transfer activity, with the exception of the permanent acquisition of Joe Willock from Arsenal.

On October 7, 2021, Newcastle announced a £300 million deal with the Saudi Public Investment
Fund, Amanda Staveley, and the Reuben brothers to take over at St James' Park, putting an
end to Ashley's despised 14-year reign and ushering in an exciting new era in the North-East,
as evidenced by their on-field performances.

Review of the Season:

The difference at St James' Park could hardly be greater off the field. Newcastle, on the other hand, only improved one position in the Premier League after finishing 12th in 2020–21.

Howe's team scored 46 goals last season, compared to 44 in 2021-22, but had a poorer goal
differential. They surrendered 62 goals in both seasons, but scored 46 last season, compared to
44 in 2021-22.

The less said about Newcastle's cup fortunes, the better. While their development in the Premier
League was clear in the second part of the season, the less said about their cup fortunes, the
better. Bruce coached the Magpies all the way to the EFL Cup quarter-finals in 2020-21 before
losing to Brentford.

Burnley departed St James' Park with their name in the hat for the third round after a penalty
shootout triumph all the way back in August, and Newcastle would fall at the first hurdle this
time.

Newcastle's defeat against the-defending FA Cup champions Arsenal in the third round of
2020–21 was far from devastating, as the Magpies pushed the Gunners all the way before
falling to two extra-time goals.

The six-time FA Cup champions would similarly depart in early January this time, but it would be
a far more humiliating affair, as Joe Ironside scored the winner for a giant-killing Cambridge
United side, forcing the ambitious new owners to wait a little longer for that coveted trophy.