Chelsea are in advance talks with Barcelona over £22million bid for Pierre-Emerick Aubameyang and are optimistic that a agreement will be reached soon per transfer football expert Fabrizio Romano. 

With the final piece in Thomas Tuchel’s jigsaw this season being a striker, the Blues are determined to land the striker before next month’s transfer deadline and have stepped up their pursuit for the Ex- Arsenal forward.

The 33-year-old departed Arsenal in controversial circumstance back in January and signed for Barcelona on a free transfer. He was stripped off captaincy at the club. That followed several disciplinary actions issued against him that culminated in the termination of his contract eight months ago. 

His time at the Nou Camp has seen him score 11 La Liga goals in 18 appearances, but despite the impressive record, he could be sold before the window closes. This is largely due to the financial dilemma confronting the Spanish giants as they face severe mishap with registering their newly signed players. 

Albeit, while Chelsea are confident they can reach a deal with Barcelona, personal terms still need to be discussed with the player. 

The Chelsea coach is full of admiration for the Gabonese forward following their successful stint working in collaboration with each other at Borussia Dortmund. Aubameyang scored 75 goals in 96 appearances during his 2-year spell working under Thomas Tuchel at Dortmund from 2015-2017. 

Speaking to the media about a possible switch of Aubameyang to Chelsea, the manager disclosed his cordial relationship with the player in the following words: 

"This is totally separate from anything that is happening now, but I enjoyed a lot working with Auba while I was at Dortmund. Some players stay your players because you were very, very close, and Auba is one of those players. There was always straight away this close bond. They always stay your players in a way."

Aubameyang will now be the subject of more intense transfer talks between the clubs, with a scheduled meeting set to take place today (Thursday, August 18), as reported by Fabrizio Romano.