The small central African nation of Burundi's main warden of five protected forestry zones is Mr. Nzigiyimpa. He has been collaborating with regional communities to maintain and conserve the forest for the past 20 years. Mr. Nzigiyimpa must take into account a variety of elements when performing his duties, including staffing levels and finances, as well as monitoring the effects of economic and societal factors on the environment, biodiversity, and climate change.

He currently employs the most recent version of the Integrated Management Effectiveness Tool, a free piece of software, to assist him in tracking and recording all of this. 

A team called Biopama created the instrument expressly for such environmental activity (Biodiversity and Protected Areas Management Programme). Both the European Union and the Organization of African, Caribbean, and Pacific States, which has 79 members, support this.

So, according to Mr. Nzigiyimpa, "we use this kind of tool to train the site managers to use it to collect excellent data, to analyse this data, and to take good judgments."

It's critical to monitor and safeguard the world's forests for all local populations and economies, not just those that are negatively impacted. Restoring forests could aid in the fight against climate change as deforestation contributes to it.

According to the UN, over 10 million hectares (25 million acres) of the world's forests are lost each year.

According to the World Wildlife Fund, this deforestation is responsible for 20% of all global carbon dioxide emissions, and it adds that "by limiting forest loss, we can reduce carbon emissions and fight climate change."

The UN Decade on Ecosystem Restoration was launched last year by the UN in an effort to try and restore forests and other natural habitats throughout the world. As a result, various nations, businesses, and organisations have pledged to take steps to stop, slow down, and reverse the global ecological degradation.

New digital tools to better collect, sort, and utilise data have emerged in response to the increased attention on maintaining forests.

Continued in the Support section.