There’s just something about the Australian lifestyle. If like me, you grew up watching Australian sitcoms and soap operas on TV… watching the teenagers and adults heading off to surf every morning (whilst staying outside at the bleak British weather…) it’s hard not to romanticize it.

So here’s what to expect from the Australian lifestyle, and what living in Australia is really like…

Weekends at the beach

The beaches are a huge part of Australian lifestyle. Actually, because a lot of  (most of them actually!) Australian towns and cities are based on the coast, a lot of Australians visit the beach on a weekly basis – spending mornings on the beach swimming or surfing, or just relaxing in the sunshine.

Dining al fresco

Similarly, the beach provides a perfect setting for that other great Australian activity – having a barbecue.

Cooking in the great outdoors with a collection of friends and family is one of the archetypal Australian experiences, and whilst it’s rough and ready, it can prove to be a heartwarming communal experience.

Laidback charm

As barbecues are also commonly associated with having a few ‘tinnies’, they provide a good way to get a little relaxed in the great Australian style. And whilst Australians may have an international reputation for surfing, they’re also never too body conscious and also they don’t take things too seriously.


Partying down under

Few people know how to party like the Australians and this is a big reason as to why so many carnivals and festivals take place in Australia. Let’s face it, the nightlife and socialising is a huge part of the Australian lifestyle.

The Sydney Festival in particular has grown to be one of the largest arts and culture festivals in the world in its 38 year history. With over 150,000 people congregating to take part in the huge celebration of music, arts & theater.

The great outdoors

There’s so much to do outdoors in Australia, and exploring the great outdoors is a big part of Australian lifestyle. Just being outdoors, exploring coastal walks, walking in the national parks, strolling along the beaches – it’s all part of living here. 