
Peace is more complex than the simple "absence of fighting." In contrast, it suggests "freedom from fear" and justice. One of the peace evangelists, Gandhi, not only promoted it on a global scale but also completely comprehended it. Since all conflict plans originate in the human mind, creating a peaceful environment there is important. World peace is defined as an ideal of freedom, peace, and happiness among and within all nations and/or people; without inner peace and the development of spirituality at the individual level, there cannot be any peace and calm at the global level. The idea of planetary non-violence is typically included, whereby nations cooperate voluntarily or as a result of a system of administration that forbids hostilities.Today, maintaining peace primarily involves political efforts to resolve disputes between nations through military action, an end to the arms race, and communication on less-violent, civic topics. An ideal of freedom, peace, and happiness among and within all nations people is referred to as "world peace." However, peace in reality is so much more than that,It is also to love your adversaries, just as God says, It is this: Love possesses a capacity for redemption. There is a force there that finally changes people. Just continue to be cordial with them.They respond in a variety of ways at first. In response, they have guilt feelings, and occasionally during this period of transition, they become a little bit more hostile toward you but they will collapse under the pressure thanks to the force of your love. Love has a way of expanding and inspiring creativity. Quoting the illustrious Martin Luther King Jr to conclude: "Because everyone can serve, anyone can achieve greatness. To serve, you don't need a college degree. Your subject and verb don't have to agree in order to serve. All you need is a gracious heart. A soul created through love must realise that the goal we pursue is a society that is at peace with itself and is capable of living with its conscience"
Image1: Knotted gun sculpture at the headquarters of NYC , A symbol of non violence 
Name: Soha Ejaz
Grade: 9th
School: Dolphin International School 