By Abhishek Kumar
A 44-second CCTV clip of a group of young men thrashing a man with sticks is viral on social media. A girl is also seen coming to the man’s rescue, but the assailants do not relent. They continue to beat the man mercilessly as he is lying on the ground. It has been claimed that the video is from Bihar’s Samastipur district. The victim is purported to be a man named Mohammad Mustaqeem. According to the viral claim, he was accused of stealing a bull, due to which the mob thrashed him to death.
Twitter user Shakeel Syed shared this video and wrote, “Bihar: Youth named Mohd Mustaqeem youth brutally beaten to death by a mob on charges of bull theft in Samastipur”. ( Archived Link )
( Tweet Link )
Another user named Irfan Ansari tweeted the visuals with a similar claim. (Archived link)
Mohammad Harun Mansuri also amplified this video as an incident from Samastipur. (Archived link)
Several other users also promoted the clip with the accompanying claim.
Fact-check 
Alt News performed a reverse image search using the frames taken from the viral video. This led us to a Times Now Hindi article dated August 3, 2022, in which the viral video has been mentioned.
According to the article, this video depicts an incident in Hisar, Haryana. In a case of mutual enmity, a group of criminals beat a man named Vikas to death. His father Jaiveer Pehalwan had also been murdered several years ago. According to the report, several criminal cases were already registered against Vikas and at the time of the incident, he had just been released from prison a few days ago. After the incident, the police registered a case and launched an investigation. We also came across a few media reports covering this incident by outlets such as Jagran, ETV Bharat, and Hari Bhoomi. This confirms that the viral video is not from Samastipur.
Read the full story here:- https://www.altnews.in/unrelated-video-from-hariyana-shared-as-mob-lynching-of-muslim-man-accusing-bull-theft/?utm_source=website&utm_medium=social-media&utm_campaign=newpost