There is no other way to put it. Disney sucks now, period. From a corporation which used to dish out some of the best cartoons of all time that fashioned the childhoods of entire generations, Disney has become an an evil money-grubbing and capitalizing corporation whose main objective is to brainwash children and adults with their movies, TV shows, and games promoting a particular socio-political agenda.
With a desire for hegemonic domination, they want to rule over the entertainment industry with their purchased media franchises, including  Marvel, Fox and Lucasfilm all of which produced amazing and unique content, Disney has ruined them after applying  their own bland kid friendly factory manufactured recipe for disaster, by making everything childish and stupid. 
Prior to Disney’s purchase, Star Wars was a universe of its own which had so much to offer that it was unreal while Marvel had some incredible stories. Now both Marvel and Star Wars are plagued by awkward millennial humour that ruins everything by taking away all its seriousness, making even the most heaviest scenes look like a bad attempt at comedy.
Then Disney’s own TV shows are so horrible that it is just migraine inducing cringe that can render you brain dead by its lack of imaginative and original content, which is full of the same old pathetic humour, over reliance on CGI and pandering to fake feminism and woke politics . But the worst offence of all is their hypocrisy.
Disney has this unnatural obsession of creating an image of being a family friendly entity even though they have created some pretty dark stuff in the past, but they insist on owning everything refusing to allow their purchased organizations a shred of autonomy in creating their content. 
Disney want to look like the spokespersons of a ‘better more magical world’ but their cookie cutter formula of making shows and movies for 3-12 year olds and unnecessarily reworking their old material while imposing a superficial fake morality on adults to move them and cancel them if they decide to chastise their content for its lack of ideas, is not only hypocritical but also highly egotistical.