In Retirement continues...
“Your splendid and outspoken views expressed in your vigorous article in 
the ‘Hindustan Independence Supplement’ receive my cordial approval, if 
you will permit me to say so”. 
Mr. Giri, who was then a Minister in the Central Government 
wrote: 
“I read your very interesting and informative article in Hindustan Times. 
Views coming from an impartial personage like your esteemed self will have 
greater value than from politicians like myself. For many years I have 
believed that if India has to secure internal peace, it can only be through the 
establishment of one unitary state. A time will come when all will realize 
that this can be the only way of establishing real and effective unity in the 
country. I much appreciate your views on this matter and am confident that 
ere long, there will be many right thinking persons in our country who will 
agree with your view of the matter”. 
Mr. Justice Manohar Pershad wrote from Hyderabad:
“I had the pleasure to go through your three articles on Consolidation 
appearing in the Hindu.  The division of India on linguistic basis will 
affect its unity. 
“Even though the S.R.C. report has not been accepted, people have begun 
to think in terms of linguism. Every day this is gaining momentum. I feel 
that if the unity of India is to be maintained, this has to be stopped, which in my view can be done by changing the system of Government, and, as you 
say, it should be the unitary system of Government or the zonal system 
consisting of five zones. I entirely agree with you that by this we would be 
able to relieve some of our best men who would not be otherwise available. 
Further the unitary system of Government or the zonal system would do 
away with many other things, for instance, nepotism, corruption, bribery, etc. 
Your articles have appeared just at the time when the matter of the implemen￾tation of the report is before the Government, and I am sure our Prime 
Minister and the authorities concerned would give due consideration to your 
opinion. 
To be continued...
