Rich leagcy of Chandigarh Press Club -

Legendary hockey player Balbir Singh Senior hoisted the national flag to commemorate the 70 years of Independent India's first Olympic gold won on August 12, 1948, at Chandigarh Press Club during  a function hosted by the club on August 12, 2018. 

The Chandigarh Press Club has a rich leagacy of hosting the country’s prominent journalists, personalities from literary, theater and films, top politicians, including the country’s President, Prime Minister, Home Minister, Chief Minister of various  states, and the personalities from the sporting world. 

Triple Olympic hockey gold medallist late Balbir Senior was associated with Chandigarh Press Club from a long time. He lit the flame of the 1982 Asian Games held in New Delhi and later on the Chandigarh Press Club gave him an honorary membership with No - 82. 

The 1983 Cricket World Cup winning captain Kapil Dev, who hails from Chandigarh, got a honourary membership with a No - 83. 

The club hosted an event at its premises to commemorate the 70 years of Independent India's first Olympic gold.  

A British colony a year ago, India defeated Britain on their home turf in the 1948 Games and saw the tri-colour of the Independent India hoisted for the first time on a foreign land and that too in a nation which ruled them for more than two centuries.

A member of the 1948 London Olympics gold medal winning team, Balbir Singh Senior was the chief guest. He hoisted the national flag on August 12, 2018, and the club staff organised a parade in his honour.  

Later he shared his experiences with the media fraternity.  

"That day (August 12, 1948) when our flag was hoisted in front of thousands of Britons in Wembley Stadium, I realised what Independent nation means. It was the proudest moment for me and for the all the Indians back home,” said then 95-year-old Balbir Singh Senior with a moist eyes at an interaction in the club. “When the national anthem was played and flag was going up, I virtually felt that I was flying in the air. I am short of words to describe that glorious moment in the history of Indian sports.”