In a major policy shift, the US is ready to lift all sanctions on the South American oil-rich nation Venezuela. A US delegation met the country’s President Nicolas Maduro in a bid to re-establish links with the country seeking its oil, as the US was getting ready to ban Russian oil imports in response to Moscow’s invasion of Ukraine. The US also sought release of a number of Americans detained by Maduro’s government, including six oil executives jailed in Venezuela in 2017.  

Maduro has been the President of Venezuela since 2013 and was re-elected in a poll in 2018, rejected by Donald Trump’s administration as he was accused of “stealing the election” after having jailed, exiled or forbidden opposition leaders from contesting.  Several nations, led by the US, did not recognise Maduro as the president and were considered an autocrat. According to an estimate by the UN, over 9,000 people were killed through extrajudicial means and almost six million of refugees had to escape the regime and live in exile in neighbouring countries. 

The US recognised Juan Guaido as the country’s legitimate president and stopped buying Venezuelan crude oil which used to buy 95 per cent of its oil exports. US, Canada and neighbouring Panama impose strict sanctions crippling the country’s economy. But, Russia, China, Cuba, El Salvador, Iran and Turkey lent support to Maduro and his government.

After last weekend’s talk Maduro agreed to ramp up his country’s oil production when Russian oil supplies are cut off due to international sanctions. But such efforts by the US have been strongly criticised as the move can whitewash Maduro’s poor human rights record and legitimize his authoritarian regime. The Biden administration, however, looks at this as an opportunity to help Venezuela escape Russia’s embrace and find a market for its oil in the US, staring at a huge shortage in the coming months.   

READ MORE:

 https://www.france24.com/en/live-news/20220307-us-envoys-held-energy-talks-with-venezuela-s-maduro-w-house

https://www.ft.com/content/276aac3e-25bd-45c2-b5f4-8459240c9462

https://www.nytimes.com/2022/03/08/world/europe/venezuela-russia-oil.html