On 2 May 2022, 10 Hindu men burst into a Christian prayer room in the home of a pastor in the coastal Andhra Pradesh town of Machilipatnam. 


They called themselves the Shiva Shakthi Sainyam or the Shiva Shakthi Army. 


“What is your caste?” they asked the pastor. Of the 10, only two or three spoke, witnesses recounted.  


The chapel was on the top floor of a private property, a small independent house owned by Father Gnanaraju, a convert to Christianity. The pastor’s family lives in the house, and Christians from the locality gather to pray in a prayer room on the top floor.

 

“If the microphone was the issue it could’ve been resolved very simply,” said Gnanaraju. “They did not have to invade our personal space and belittle our god.” 


He has owned the property for eight years and never experienced any disruption, he told Article 14. 


A video of the event showed one of the men asking the devotees, aggressively,  “What are you Christians doing amongst us Hindus? We must protect our homes.” The video was recorded by the Shiva Shakthi team and posted on their social media page, among other posts promoting Hindutva. The group has 400,000 subscribers on YouTube.

Conversion of religion, unless forced, is not prohibited in India, and the Constitution guarantees the right through Articles 25, 26, 27 and 28. In 2021, the Andhra Pradesh unit of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) declared that it would enact a law against religious conversions if it came to power in the state assembly.  


In May 2022,  the Shiva Shakthi Sainyam filed a petition with Spandana, the Andhra Pradesh government’s public grievance redressal platform at the Machilipatnam collectorate, demanding closure of Gnanaraju’s chapel. The matter appeared to be resolved when Gnanaraju wrote to the collectorate assuring officials that no microphones would be used in the chapel.

Several Machilipatnam residents believed that the town’s communal harmony was in danger from the Shiva Shakthi Sainyam. 

Read more - https://article-14.com/post/how-a-hindu-organisation-facing-criminal-charges-is-menacing-churches-in-andhra-pradesh-62c253cceeec0