It is for the first time in the history of Television & OTT platform, a singing competition is organised physically in 2 locations – Hyderabad(India) and Melbourne(Australia) along with participants from 6 other countries joining from their respective studios by METV channel and MEWorld – A global OTT plus platform and it creates a World Record in the INKZOID Book Of Records and the Glorious Book Of Records.

This competition had over 1000 registrations from 30+ countries across the globe and the 7 month journey with the contestants over 6 filtrations has resulted with 24 Finalists from 8 countries who will compete with each other for the Winner and Runner titles.

The contest template makes it first in the world again as it has contestants singing in all Indian languages and English along with having them from all age groups participating in 4 different categories. Silver (Age 6 to 14), Gold (Age 15 to 23), Diamond( Age 24 to 40) , Platinum (Age 40+).

A total of 8 highly eminent musicians are the judges for the participants in this journey. This show has attracted over 150,000 votes from 102 countries in the world on MEWorld platform.

Music Director S Thaman is the Chief Guest along with star performances by Indian Idol Title Winner – SreeRama Chandra and the scintillating Nandy sisters. Telangana Agriculture and Marketing Minister, Hon. Singireddy Niranjan Reddy is the Guest of Honor.



About METV Channel and MEWorld Global OTT plus Platform

METV is an Australian based media channel started in 2016 by Mr.Srihari Kommineni to connect South Asian audience with their communities. This vision to connect communities made him start MEWorld – A global OTT plus platform to create stars by giving them global reach in 2020.

This App is viewed by over 3.5M people globally especially having no star cast and making the local talents the real heroes. This OTT platform has gained strong viewership from Australia, India, USA, UK, Singapore, Malaysia and UAE.

We are on a mission to give opportunity to 2M talents worldwide by the next year to make their work visible globally.