Premier League action returns to the King Power stadium for the second time this month as Leicester City manager Brendan Rodgers and his men will look to establish a stride in their pursuit to climb out of the relegation zone against Crystal Palace.
After demolishing Premier League newcomers, Nottingham Forest earlier this month at home, the Foxes felt a rejuvenation to their season until their trip to Bournemouth handed them a narrow defeat. Patson Daka opened the scoring for the visitors in the 10th minute but a second-half comeback from the Cherries with goals from Phillip Billing and Ryan Christie made the scoreline 2-1 while tossing City their 7th defeat of the season.
With just 4 points off 9 games in the Premier League this season, Leicester City finds themselves at rock bottom of the pile and a home win against Crystal Palace will definitely set up an optimistic mood around camp about survival.
Meanwhile for the visitors, Crystal Palace, they find themselves at 15th in the Premier League standings and just 3 points clear off the relegation zone.
Quite a contrast to Leicester’s previous fixture, Patrick Vieira’s men possessed the spirit and determination to orchestrate a fight-back and come away with the 3 points after conceding early at home against Leeds United.
In-form Wilfried Zaha is expected to be Palace’s key man on whom they will be relying to snatch the three points from the tactically dilapidated Foxes and minimise any dangers of relegation this season.
Team News
Leicester City
Wilfried Ndidi, Ryan Bertrand and Ricardo Pereira are to remain sidelined with long-term injuries.
Timothy Castagne is also set to be out of this fixture after suffering an eye-socket injury against the Cherries.
In-form Harvey Barnes, Patson Daka and James Maddison are expected to start.
Crystal Palace
Nathaniel Clyne, James McArthur, Jack Butland, Nathan Ferguson and Chris Richards are to remain sidelines with mid-long-term injuries.
Predicted Starting XI:
Leicester City: Ward; Justin, Evans, Faes, Thomas; Soumare; Maddison, Tielemans, Dewsbury-Hall, Barnes; Vardy
Crystal Palace: Guaita; Ward, Andersen, Guehi, Schlupp; Olise, Doucoure, Eze; Ayew, Edouard, Zaha
