Sports injuries occur during exercise or while participating in a sport. Children are particularly at risk for these types of injuries, but adults can get them, too. 
Types of sports injuries - 
Different sports injuries produce different symptoms and complications. The most common types of sports injuries include 
1 Sprains - Overstretching or tearing the ligaments results in a sprain. Ligaments are pieces of tissue that connect two bones to one another in a joint.
2 Strains- Overstretching or tearing muscles or tendons results in a sprain. Tendons are thick, fibrous cords of tissue that connect bone to muscle. Strains are commonly mistaken for sprains. Here’s how tell them apart.
3 Knee injuries - Any injury that interferes with how the knee joint moves could be a sports injury. It could range from an overstretch to a tear in the muscles or tissues in the knee.
4 Swollen muscles -Swelling is a natural reaction to an injury. Swollen muscles may also be painful and weak.
5 Achilles tendon rupture- The Achilles tendon is a thin, powerful tendon at the back of your ankle. During sports, this tendon can break or rupture. When it does, you may experience sudden, severe pain and difficulty walking.
6 Fractures- Bone fractures are also known as broken bones.
7 Dislocations- Sports injuries may dislocate a bone in your body. When that happens, a bone is forced out of its socket. This can be painful and lead to swelling and weakness.
8 Rotator cuff injury- Four pieces of muscle work together to form the rotator cuff. The rotator cuff keeps your shoulder moving in all directions. A tear in any of these muscles can weaken the rotator cuff.
Sports injuries treatment ; 
The RICE method is a common treatment regimen for sports injuries. It stands for:
1 rest
2ice
3 compression 
4 elevation
This treatment method is helpful for mild sports injuries. For best results, follow the RICE method within the first 24 to 36 hours after the injury.
Read more - https://www.healthline.com/health/sports-injuries#treatment