Some common signs of the new variant of Omicron virus

Viruses keep mutating over time, owing to various environmental factors and geographical area. This process of mutation leads to several changes in the nature and structure of the virus. The same is with variants of the coronavirus. A detailed evaluation of the previous mutant variants of coronavirus reveals that each new strain is different from the other and leads to different sets of symptoms after entering the human body. Even the new sub-variant of the Omicron is diverse from the parent variant. Dubbed as "stealth", the sub-variant of Omicron is concerning as they are hard to detect. Knowing the signs of the stealth variant can help to detect the condition faster and take the right steps to avoid complication

The two common signs of Stealth Omicron variant

Based on the months-long findings, the World Health Organisation (WHO) recently suggested that Omicron mainly affects the upper respiratory tract instead of the lungs, unlike some prior versions of the virus. The same is with the Stealth Omicron variant, but still, a lot more research is needed as the variant is quite new and not much is known about it. As far as the symptoms go, the only confirmation that has come to the fore is that the subvariant leads to two typical symptoms in the early stage- dizziness and fatigue. There are many reasons one may feel dizzy and tired in a day, but if the condition bothers you for a more days then you should immediately contact your doctor. 

These symptoms can appear within two-three days after getting infected with the virus and may linger in the body for longer.

Read more: Coronavirus: This is how you can minimize your risk of long COVID, as per study

Other common symptoms of the new sub-variant

Apart from two telltale signs, the new sub-variant may also lead to other symptoms like:

Fever

Extreme fatigue

Coughing

Sore throat

Sore head

Muscular fatigue

Elevated heart rate


As the new variant is not related to the lungs, earlier tell-tale COVID symptoms like loss of smell or taste and shortness of breath can be ruled out.