Georgia and Gibraltar kick-start their 2022-23 UEFA Nations League campaign on Wednesday at the Boris Paichadze Dinamo Arena in Tbilisi.

The sides have been drawn alongside Bulgaria and North Macedonia in Group 4 of League C, the third-tier of the league system.

Despite the fact that Georgia and Gibraltar were in the same league in the previous edition, Gibraltar was promoted from League D after defeating Liechtenstein and San Marino.

The Crusaders have had an unexpectedly impressive run of form recently, going undefeated and winning four of their previous five games.

Willy Sagnol's team also ended their disastrous World Cup qualifying campaign on a high note last year, defeating Kosovo and Sweden in their final two games.

Gibraltar hasn't won a game in any format since a 1-0 loss to Liechtenstein in the 2020-21 Nations League.

Los Llanos lost 12 of their next 17 games, including all ten of their 2022 FIFA World Cup qualifiers.

Georgia vs Gibraltar: Probable Playing XI

Georgia: Giorgi Loria; Otar Kakabadze, Lasha Dvali, Guram Kashia; Khvicha Kvaratskhelia, Giorgi Aburjania, Nika Kvekveskiri, Heorhiy Tsitaishvili; Saba Lobzhanidze, Budu Zivzivadze, Valeri Qazaishvili.

Gibraltar: Bradley Banda; Ethan Jolley, Bernardo Lopes, Jack Sergeant, Scott Wiseman, Jayce Olivero; Louie Annesley, Graeme Torrilla, Ethan Britto, Liam Walker; Lee Casciaro.

Georgia vs Gibraltar: Prediction

Gibraltar are one of the weakest sides in Europe and their form in the last three years are testament to that.

Georgia aren't the best side either, but certainly have enough in their tank to see off Gibraltar rather easily.

Prediction: Georgia 2-0 Gibraltar






Georgia vs Gibraltar: Telecast & Live Stream


Georgia and Gibraltar live TV broadcast can be seen on Arena 4, Arena Sport (Serbia), CMore (Finland), DAZN Deutsch, Nova Sports (Hungaryl), Optus Sport (Australia), Premier Sports

(UK), Sport TV (Portugal), SportKlub (BiH), SportKlub (Croatia), SportKlub

(Macedonia), SportKlub (Montreal), SportKlub (Serbia), SportKlub (Slovenia), SuperSport, Viaplay (Sweden).