Samidha Khatoon, 20, a homemaker and resident of south Delhi, relies on an anganwadi centre that is a five-minute walk away to make sure her two infants, aged six months and 18 months, are fed nutritious meals.


Samidha, whose husband is a day labourer, said neither child had an Aadhaar card yet. If the Aadhaar card was made mandatory for her children to get the pulses and cereals they are entitled to, the little boy and girl would risk losing most essential nutrients in their daily diet.


In a move that experts said would jeopardise access of the poorest children and women to nutrition, the union government has made it mandatory for beneficiaries of its supplementary nutrition programme—which provides children up to the age of six, pregnant women and lactating mothers with free nutritious food—to have Aadhaar numbers so they are registered on India’s national identity database. 


Previously undisclosed official correspondence and guidelines of the ministry of women and child development accessed by The Reporters’ Collective revealed that in March 2022 the government of Prime Minister Narendra Modi made Aadhaar compulsory for the nutrition programme. Earlier, in November 2021, the government threatened state governments that it would curtail financial support for the scheme, restricting it to only beneficiaries verified through Aadhaar.


The Union government followed it up with the states on 23 June, asking them to hasten the linking of Aadhaar identities of beneficiaries to use the free-food programme.


The objective, according to the correspondence, was to weed out fake beneficiaries and to boost a mobile app that tracks beneficiaries at anganwadis and the services they provide.


Currently, 79 million children between the age of six months and six years benefit from the supplementary nutrition programme. But, only 23% of children below the age of five have  Aadhaar, according to official records.  Many of them could be denied a legally guaranteed right if Aadhaar is made a prerequisite.


Read More - https://article-14.com/post/millions-of-children-will-soon-need-aadhaar-ids-to-access-their-right-to-a-nutritious-meal--62bc915131cc9