Two major Muslim nations with most powerful state institutions and the constitution of Quran and teachings of Propeht s.a.w to live by, could really have made an impact. Not denying the fact that there have been differences between various sections of Muslim communities concerning their ideologies and rituals but these differences are caused by the brainwashing and bias of the corrupted West ideology for their own benefit & economic gains. Westernisation has made its presence in many toxic forms which has affected the cognitive patterns of the political regimes and the Arab Kingdom can be seen puppetering the same.
Because the pilgrimage breaks the stereotype and obnoxious claims of the West in demeaning Islam by getting together people irrespective of gender, race, caste, creed, region, the West is left with nothing but plotting against breaking the united stand with their policies of power & control. Their lifelong claim of showcasing Islam
as regressive on part of
women for example, gets
dissolved when world
witnesses them standing
and surrounding the holy
Kaabah together with
their men counterparts,
with rights & duties
matching like equals. The
western dominance still
powerhouse by managing the Saudi regime by their diplomacy either political, economical and even moral.
The pervasive nature of western hegemonic behavior gets reflected unfortunately in the current regime of Saudi Arabia that continues to impact the mission of fostering unity under an umbrella of one Muslim Ummah. This derivative discourse proves to be lethal and errorneous. Affecting the areas of politics, culture, economy & religion, it has majorly affected the sphere of social mobility too. It is thus, crucial to understand what the Western dominance is doing and correct our practices and nation idea. It's to be confronted. It's to be defeated. This way even the pilgrimage to Mecca exposes the myth of a united Islam and the formative power of the western world over our Muslim regimes. The regime is inescapable when it comes to
manages to route channels to reach to the
matters of establishing and governing matters within and between religious communities.