Twitter and Elon Musk has created quite a stir worldwide and pewresearch.org did research and their findings are quite interesting. Twitter is a platform wherein people debate, make announcements, protest and so on. The impact of Twitter is huge in all aspects. 

Democrats are more likely than Republicans to use Twitter. Around a third of Democrats and Democratic-leaning independents (32%) report using Twitter, 15 percentage points more than the share of Republicans and Republican leaners who say the same (17%).

Most adults over 30 use Twitter more than adults under 30 years. 

Tweeting ways are different for frequent and infrequent users on Twitter. 

Around one-in-five adult, Twitter users in the U.S. have experienced harassing or abusive behaviour on the platform, and a third say they see a lot of inaccurate or deceiving information there. The majority of adult Twitter users have not experienced harassing or abusing behaviour on the site, but 17% say this has happened to them personally.

Around one-in-five U.S. adults (23%) say they use Twitter. The share of Americans who use the platform has stayed stable over the past several years and is similar to the share who use Snapchat (25%) and WhatsApp (23%). But a much larger share of U.S. adults uses YouTube (81%), Facebook (69%) and Instagram (40%).

A minority of Twitter users produce the vast majority of tweets. Among U.S. adults who use Twitter, the top 25% of users buy tweet volume produce 97% of all tweets, while the bottom 75% of users produce just 3%, according to an analysis conducted over three months in 2021.

Democratic and Republican Twitter users differ in their views of the platform’s effect on democracy. 


Republican Twitter users are far more likely than Democrats to say it’s a major crisis that Twitter limits the visibility of certain posts or bans users from the platform. 


Around a fifth of U.S. adult, Twitter users think nobody sees their tweets.


Many Twitter account holders lack clarity about their privacy settings.


Most Twitter news consumers in the U.S. say using the platform has increased their understanding of current events in the last year, but around a third say it has heightened their stress levels.


Do you agree with these. Comment your opinions.