SIDNEY NOLAN  SEARCH FOR PARADISE

One of Australia’s leading artists of the twentieth century, Sidney Nolan is synonymous with Heide, which for him was a Garden of Eden that he later saw as a season in hell. Nolan’s creativity was fuelled by a life-long fascination with the elusive notion of paradise and the consequences of its loss. From his nostalgia for St Kilda, his childhood heaven, to his explorations of the Australian landscape and restless travels abroad, Sidney Nolan: Search for Paradise examines one of the artist’s deepest impulses and the journey of self-discovery it engendered.

UNDER LAMPLIGHT  ALBERT TUCKER AND PATRICK POUND

This exhibition showcases a series of works by Albert Tucker united by the motif of the electric lamp as pictorial device, potent symbol and dramatic light source. The works are accompanied by a curated selection of Patrick Pound’s vast archive of found lamp-lit photographs and clippings: from vernacular snaps to newspaper photographs, cinema stills and archival images. As Pound describes, together they ‘light up like a crime scene caught in a newspaper photographer’s flash’.

The exhibition seeks to reconsider Tucker’s work through the singular frame of electric light: at once melancholy and moody, technical and historic, painterly and expressive. Pound’s photographic inventory further reminds us of the expressive possibilities of electric light through modernism and the history of design.

HOUSE OF IDEAS  CYNTHIA REED’S STUDIO

In 1932, at the age of 24, Cynthia Reed opened a modernist studio shop and gallery in Collins Street, Melbourne and quickly became part of the city’s growing artistic community. During its two years of operation her studio was a platform for artists and designers to meet, exhibit and sell their work. It has since gained a reputation as the first shop in Melbourne to display modern furniture alongside contemporary art and textile design. The exhibitions presented by Reed reflect her vision in advancing modernist ideas and her support of avant-garde artists.

House of Ideas: Cynthia Reed’s Studio recreates elements of the studio displays and brings together the work of associated artists and designers to shed light on Reed’s place in the development of Australian modernism.