By Srinand Jha
New Delhi: The hype surrounding the rollout of the third Vande Bharat from the state-owned and Chennai-based Integral Coach Factory (ICF) is understandable.
After a lapse of more than three years, an improved version of the state-of-the-art Vande Bharat train will be seen dashing across a new route: The 490 km stretch connecting Mumbai to Ahmedabad. This semi-high speed - the third of the series -has successfully completed trial runs at 115 kmph, while trials at the higher speed of 180 kmph are currently being conducted on the 261 km long Kota-Nagda section. While the third train will be put into operation shortly, the fourth train set is scheduled to roll out in September itself.
Seventy-five Vande Bharat trains - previously called the T-18 - are targeted to be manufactured in the next 75 weeks. Even as these stiff targets are only half achieved, India will have a good number of these self-propelled Electric Multiple Units (EMUs) speeding along the countryside by next year.
The Narendra Modi government can be faulted for much else; not on the scale and grandness of infrastructure plans. Indian Railways have called bids worth approximately Rs. 50,000 crores, inviting private and public parties to build 200 Vande Bharat equivalent trains, 100 aluminum train sets, and another 100 Aluminum push-pull trains. These will be built in IR's factories and workshops. Earlier, orders had been placed to build the first lot of 100 Vande Bharat trains. The third take that has now turned outcomes as part of this order.
Concerns of Rail Engineers
While the focus has remained riveted on the glitzy trains in the making, a matching and much-required thrust on what are called "downstream activities" have appeared to be a low-priority area for the Indian Railways. One example: Progress on track upgrade to enable train speeds above 160 kmph for the Delhi-Mumbai and Delhi-Howrah sectors - sanctioned in 2017 - has remained excruciatingly slow.
Read more
https://www.newsdrum.in/analysis/indian-railways-the-vande-bharat-assembly-line-83214.html