“This is a moment to infuse the dreams of our freedom fighters with new energy and dedicate ourselves to new pledges”

“Increased public participation has given impetus to the development of the country and empowered the poorest”

“We are witnessing a new confidence among the citizens to come out of the mentality of deprivation and dream big”

“21st century India is moving ahead with the approach of people-centric governance”

“When we move with the power of reform, simplification and ease, we attain a new level of convenience”

“World is looking at us with hope and confidence as a capable, game changing, creative, innovative ecosystem”

“We have trusted the wisdom of the common Indian. We encouraged the public as intelligent participants in Growth”

Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi inaugurated iconic week celebrations of the Ministry of Finance today. This week is being celebrated as part of the ‘Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav’ (AKAM) from 6th to 11th June 2022.  He also launched the National Portal for Credit Linked Government schemes – Jan Samarth Portal. He also inaugurated a Digital Exhibition which traces the journey of the two Ministries over the past eight years. The Prime Minister also released a special series of ₹1, ₹2, ₹5, ₹10 and ₹20 coins. These special series of coins will have the theme of the logo of AKAM and will also be easily identifiable to visually impaired persons.

Addressing the gathering, the Prime Minister said whoever took part in the long struggle for independence, added a different dimension to this movement, and augmented its energy. Some adopted the path of satyagraha, some chose the path of weapons, some faith and spirituality, and some intellectually helped to keep the flame of freedom burning bright, today is the day when we acknowledge all of them.

Today when we are celebrating 75 years of independence, the Prime Minister stressed, it is the duty of every countryman to make a special contribution to the development of the nation at their own level. This is a moment to infuse the dreams of our freedom fighters with new energy and dedicate ourselves to new pledges, he said.