Capitalism is an economic system in which private firms, rather than the people whose time and labour fuels those companies, control a nation's trade, industry, and profits. Although the United States and many other countries are capitalist, capitalism is not the only economic system that may be used.
The complex history of capitalism may be traced to the 16th century, when the Black Death, a terrible plague that wiped out up to 60% of all of Europe's population, caused the British institutions of power to essentially collapse. Newly discovered export demand harmed local economies and started to control total production and pricing of products as a new class of merchants started trading with other nations.
Whether you're a boss or a worker, capitalism has a different effect on your life. Capitalism may make sense for someone who owns a business and employs other workers: The higher the profits your business makes, the more resources it has to provide to its employees, raising everyone's standard of living theoretically. Supply and demand are the underlying premises, and in capitalism, consumption is king. One of the main criticisms of capitalism is that it is a major cause of inequality, both social and economic. The problem is that many capitalist bosses aren't great at sharing wealth.
Supporters of capitalism adhere to numerous fundamental principles: Having a state-owned means of production can result in federal overreach and authoritarianism, whereas economic independence leads to political freedom. They maintain that alternatives like socialism, communism, or anarchist are bound to failure and that their system is the only rational way to structure a society. There is no choice, as former British prime minister Margaret Thatcher often proclaimed, whose pro-capitalism position is thought to have crushed the British working class.
Anti-capitalists believe that capitalism must be abolished since it is an inhumane, anti-democratic, unsustainable, and highly exploitative system. They view it as intrinsically opposed to democracy due to the way capitalism employers control employees at work and the fact that their level of power increases as their capital increases. 

Image source: Governmentvs