Ruby the Gem of the Sun—The King of Planets continues .....

Ruby in Scorpio Ascendant 

Sun is an auspicious and powerful planet for Scorpio Ascendant. It owns the 10th quadrant of profession and is the friend of the ascendant lord. Individuals whose Sun is placed in the 10th House, 5th house, 9th house, 6th house should wear a ruby gemstone. The ruby blesses with professional success, gain in career, recognition and rewards. The placement of Sun in the 10th house or the 6th house also confers political success and power. 

Ruby in Sagittarius Ascendant 

The Sun becomes an auspicious planet for this auspicious ascendant ruled by Devguru Brihaspati as it becomes the lord of the 9th trine house. Individuals who have Sun in the 5th house, 9th house or the ascendant should wear a Ruby/Manik for life. Sun’s placement in 2nd, 3rd, 4th, 7th and 10th houses should only be considered during Sun period. Those with Sun’s placement in 
the 6th, 8th and 11th houses should avoid wearing the ruby gemstone. The 
ruby blesses with dawn of fate and fortune, good luck, refined spirituality and divine grace. 

Ruby in Capricorn Ascendant 

Sun's gemstone should be completely avoided. Firstly, it owns the 8th house of losses and accidents and secondly it is the enemy of the ascendant lord. Sun Saturn enmity is legendary. Sun is best pacified here by giving arghya(offering water) or by Surya Namaskar (Sun salutation). Sun’s placement in 4th, 3rd house can be considered for those who have interest in occult, alternative medicine, Hatha Yoga or Ugra Sadhanas (aggressive) but this should be done after recommendation of an expert astrologer and only after trying out ruby by tying it on the right arm for 3 days to assess tolerance and suitability. 

Ruby in Aquarius Ascendant 

Ruby in general not an auspicious gemstone for this ascendant ruled by its enemy Saturn. During Sun Mahadasha (major period) Ruby gemstone/Ruby birth stone be considered only when Sun is placed in 3rd, 7th, 10th or 11th house. First analyse the position of Venus and give preference to Venus gemstones like Diamond and White Sapphire. 

To be continued.....