Popular Front of India (PFI)- a name which resonates whenever there is a violent activity in India involving Muslims; directly or indirectly. The incidents cover a wide range of criminal spectrum including murder, kidnapping, political killings, money laundering, terrorism etc. Police and other investigation agencies have declared this organisation as dangerous and harmful to the unity and integrity of India. However, the PFI leadership through its well-oiled social media army has time & again claimed that they are victims of political conspiracy. Whenever there is a police action against the organisation or the leadership, they play the Muslim victimization card.
 The matter doesn’t seem to be as simple as it appears. A detailed analysis about various charges against the organisation will only clarify about the truth behind the claims.
Premier investigation agency of India - National Investigation Agency (NIA) is currently investigating various cases on PFI whose details can be easily accessed through its website   
https://www.nia.gov.in/. 
NIA generally investigates those cases which have Pan-India implications. The case details are too large to be shared in a single article owing to word limitations. However, the confusion about the claims and counter claims can’t be dispelled unless a few cases related to PFI or its sister organisations are mentioned. 
In the year 2010, the National Investigation Agency investigated the hand chopping case of Professor T. J. Joseph in Kerala. In 2015, NIA Special Court, Ernakulam, Kerala pronounced judgment in this case convicting 13 accused persons. In another case, a group of persons belonging to PFI/SDPI organized a terrorist camp at Narath, Kannur District, Kerala to impart training to some youth for using explosives and weapons, with an intention to prepare them for terrorist activities, and to commit acts endangering the unity and integrity of the Nation. 
Trial of the case is completed against 22 charge sheeted accused and all were convicted by the court. The gravity of the offence can be judged by the fact that PFI cadres were being trained for endangering the unity of India. 
To be continued... 