It is often the case with modern football that the plaudits go to those who are scoring, assisting and saving the most. It’s clearly impossible to watch every single game for the full 90 minutes so we fall upon surface level stats and highlight reels. As a result, I feel there need to be credit given to those who do the simple roles: pass with maximum efficiency, create chances that aren’t finished, win all their duels, and so on. Here are some of the best performers from this week that might not have gotten the credit they deserve.

Tyrell Malacia - In the United game for obvious reasons Lisandro Martinez was spoken about a lot. He had an almost flawless game responding to the critics who have been on his case the past week. Nonetheless, coming up against one of the hardest wingers in the world to play again, Malacia came across relatively unscathed. 4 tackles, 88% pass accuracy, 3 clearances, 1 interception and 6/11 duels won. He didn’t do anything spectacular but he was almost flawless at everything that was asked of him.

Pascal Struijk - Continuing with the LB theme, Struijk is a player who is adjusting to his new role remarkably. He completed 100% of his 26 passes, completed 2/3 dribbles and made 3 successful tackles. He remains little spoken about but for the 3rd match running has been quietly impressive.

Alex Iwobi - rejuvenated by his change in role Iwobi looks a cut above some of his fellow teammates. From central midfield he created 4 chances, made 17!!! recoveries and won 5/7 duels. One to keep an eye on this season for sure.

Eberechi Eze - A player who might’ve got more attention than others on this list but his performance needed highlighting regardless. 35/38 passes completed, 3 chances created (1bcc), 6/6 dribbles completed, 2/2 tackles, 7 recoveries, 12/15 duels, fouled 3 times. The numbers speak for themselves really. He seems to have finally shaken off the injury woes and is filling the huge potential he’s always been capable of. 

Also shoutout to Djenepo, Lavia, MacAllister, Neves.