Football is a Tactical game and different managers have different tactics and strategy to attain victory over the opponents. 

Managers preffer goal keepers which fits in their tactics and have synergy with the similar playing style. 

The different Types of Goalkeepers are -

THE SHOT STOPPER - 

Goalkeepers who are specialise in making saves and blocking the ball from hitting their net are known as shot stoppers.

They accomplish this by making acrobatic saves and predicting the angle and power of shots by opponents.

Shot stoppers often have excellent athleticism, reflexes, and arm movements as a result.

The majority of committed shot stoppers don't have well developed technical ability because saving shots is their main responsibility.

In addition, beyond routine goal kicks and free kicks in and within the penalty area, they typically don't have great playmaking range.

For example - Jan Oblak, David De Gea 

THE BALL PLAYING - 

A goalie which plays the ball is basically a more advanced version of a shot stopper.

A ball playing goalie not only possess exceptional shot-stopping abilities but also a wide range of passing and the ability to assist their team's attacking build-up play.

Being able to see the keeper as a passing option is vital in today's highly competitive game.

The truth that strikers often aggressively press centre backs when they have the ball within their own half serves to highlight this point even more.

For Example - Ederson, Alisson becker 

THE SWEEPER KEEPER - 

A sweeper keeper is basically a modified version of a ball playing goalkeeper.

Therefore a sweeper goalkeeper differentiates from the a ball playing goalkeeper in that the one is very at comfortable exiting their penalty area and moving infield to intercept the ball.

In short, this enables their team playing with 11 outfielders instead of 10.

Sweeper keepers are famous for reading the game, running out of their box to clear the ball when the opponent throws long passes, and helping in build-up play.

Being a great sweeper keeper demands not only technical skill and shot-stopping abilities, but also extraordinary calmness.

For Example - Manuel Neuer 

Which one you are ?  

Thankyou ⚽