It is official now. 

Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath will contest the upcoming assembly elections from Gorakhpur and not Ayodhya or Mathura. 

There was intense speculation that Adityanath will be fielded from either of the two temple towns as part of the BJP's strategy to project him as the Hindutva icon. 

But the central leadership of the BJP decided that the Chief Minister should contest from his stronghold only. 

"The decision has been made after much deliberation. The final decision was taken by the top leadership of the party," Union Minister Dharmendra Pradhan said.

"Yogiji said 'I will contest from any seat party asks me to'. This was the party's decision," Pradhan said, dismissing reports suggesting that Yogi had been insisting on contesting from Gorakhpur. 

Deputy Chief Minister Keshav Prasad Maurya will contest from Sirathu seat in Prayagraj district.

In its first list, the BJP named candidates for 107 of the total 403 seats. Out of these 107, the saffrom party had won 83 in 2017. 

The winning legislators from 63 of these seats have been retained, with the remaining 20 being fresh faces. 

Also, 44 candidates are from the OBC (Other Backward Classes) communities, with 19 others from Scheduled Castes. There are only 10 women candidates in the first list of 107 candidates. 

The names on the remaining 296 seats will be announced later.

Assembly elections in Uttar Pradesh, the country's most populated and politically important state, will be held in seven phases, beginning February 10, with votes to be counted on March 10.

Soon after the announcement, Adityanath said: "I am thankful to PM Modi, BJP chief JP Nadda, (and the) Central Parliamentary Committee for fielding me from Gorakhpur. BJP works on the model of 'sabka saath, sabka vikas'... BJP will form the government with full majority."

Reacting to it, Samajwadi Party leader Akhilesh Yadav took a jibe at Adityanath. "I like that the BJP has already sent him to Gorakhpur. Yogi should stay there... there is no need for him to come from there," he said. 

Former Uttarakhand Governor Baby Rani Maurya will contest from Agra (Rural) and Pankaj Singh (Rajnath Singh's son) from Noida.