Guwahati: On a cold winter morning in February 2022, Nur Hussain zipped open a fraying backpack that held sheafs of documents. “I can show you all the documents we have got that prove we are Indians,” said Nur, 38, as his wife Sahera Begum, 27, looked on.



Their two children sat on a wooden single bed in their one-room tin shanty deep inside Narengi, a suburb of Assam’s capital city. It had been just over a year since they had been released from a detention centre in Goalpara district, 134 km west of Guwahati, where they had been kept for 18 months on grounds that they were illegal Bangladeshi immigrants. 


When Hussain and Sahera were arrested, they had been forced to take their two children, now aged  8 and 9 years, along with them. “We were scared to leave them alone,” Sahera said.


The trauma of the long detention with their children while they faced the prospect of  statelessness was behind them now, but Hussain and Sahera were still struggling to piece their life together. When Article 14 contacted the couple, they spoke of the challenges in having their elder son re-admitted to a school from which they had to pull him out. 


Their plight is not an isolated account but mirrored those of tens of thousands embroiled in citizenship issues in Assam. 


When Assam’s updated National Register Of Citizens (NRC) was published in August 2019, as many as 1.9 million people were left out of the list and faced an uncertain future. The NRC is a register of Indian citizens, first published in Assam in 1951 after the Census that year.

Fearing dispossession, many of them unable to afford legal representation, these men, women and children have since then faced hostile proceedings including arrest and being declared ‘illegal immigrants’. Tribunals declared 1,43,466 people “foreigners” until 31 December 2021. As of 1 February, there were 1,23,829 pending cases across 100 tribunals in the state. 

Read more - https://article-14.com/post/declared-illegal-immigrants-detained-for-18-months-then-found-to-be-indian-an-assam-muslim-family-s-trauma-6266ffec7522c