By Kalim Ahmed

A video of locals in Rajasthan’s Dholpur pelting at policemen is circulating on social media. Sharing the video footage, various users blamed Muslims for the attack.

Journalist Pradeep Bhandari and certain BJP supporters shared the video on Twitter with different captions essentially implying the same. These tweets now stand deleted.

Fact-check
We performed a keyword search in Hindi and came across a tweet by Giriraj Agrawal, editor of Dainik Bhaskar. As per Giriraj, the clash broke out over alleged police brutality.

( Link https://twitter.com/girirajagl/status/1529758399197347840?t=hqVbQT8hqGVN48aa5KqUjg&s=19)

Upon doing a keyword search on Google, we came across a news report by News NCR, which provided a detailed account of the events. As per News NCR, the public gathered at around 11 am after they received information about the alleged assault of a youth who was accused of ‘rape’ and was under police custody.

According to Dainik Bhaskar, Bari and Basedi roads were blocked by the public using stones and wood. ASP Bachchan Singh Meena of Dholpur, accompanied by the police of Sarmathura, Kanchanpur, Basedi, Sadar police stations, reached the spot and tried to control the situation using mild force, which made the public angrier, leading to the clash.

The report further adds, that Krishna, son of Hari Singh, was accused of attempted rape by his younger brother’s wife about three months ago. He was arrested at that time but released on bail. Two days ago, when police officers went to his house for questioning, he was nowhere to be found and his family members were asked to send the youth to the police station.

While locals claim that the accused was beaten in police custody, the police’s version differs. A statement by SP Narayan Togas was shared by journalist Avdhesh Pareek. According to the SP, Krishna reached the Bari Kotwali police station under the influence of alcohol. He started abusing police officials and was taken to the Bari Hospital for medical treatment. During this treatment, Krishna fell unconscious, after which he was further taken to the Dholpur Hospital. 

Read the full story here:- https://www.altnews.in/clash-between-police-and-locals-in-rajasthans-dholpur-given-false-