By BestMediaInfo Bureau
Indian Deaf Cricket Association (IDCA) has unveiled the new jersey of the specially-abled team India for the Deaf International Cricket Council (DICC) T20 Champions Trophy 2022 (UAE). 
The unveiling ceremony took place in the presence of Support Partners, board of IDCA and the Indian Deaf Cricket team who will represent India at the championship trophy scheduled to be held in Sharjah, UAE from October 1 to 9. 
Roma Balwani, CEO of the Indian Deaf Cricket Association, stated, “DICC T20 Champions Trophy is an excellent platform to promote sports among specially-abled people. And our team is elated to represent India in this five-nation global tournament which includes Australia, South Africa, Bangladesh and Pakistan. We are all set for the championship and are looking forward to our team proving their mettle on the pitch. We thank each and every person, sponsor, support partner, corporate, CSR teams who has shown faith in us and request them to keep showering their love to players. Their support will motivate our players to give their best on the field.”  
IDCA President Sumit Jain said, “Our players are well-prepared and pumped up for the upcoming championship trophy. They are ready to put up their best game against their contenders to vie for the prestigious title. I wish them luck and success.”
Former Team India cricketer, Yuvraj Singh in a letter to the Indian Deaf Cricket Team playing at the DICC T20 Champions Trophy 2022 (UAE), said, “I would like to extend my heartfelt wishes to the most inspiring Players, Board Members and Office Bearers of the Indian Deaf Cricket Association. It is very heartening to see the great strides you all are taking forward for the growth and development of the IDCA which is providing tremendous opportunities to talented players from across the country. My best wishes to the entire team for the upcoming DICC T20 Champions Trophy 2022 in UAE. I am sure you all will do your best and make the country proud.”
Read more: https://bestmediainfo.com/2022/09/indian-deaf-cricket-association-idca-unveils-speciallyabled-cricket-team-india-jersey-for-dicc-t20-champions-trophy-2022