Arsenal defender Gabriel went from villain to hero as he scored a late winner to give the Gunners a hard-fought 2-1 win over Fulham and continue their winning start to the season, enabling them to keep their place at the top of the table.
Arsenal started the game the same way they did against Bournemouth, with their slick movements and tireless pressing giving Fulham no wiggle room whatsoever, and that pressure almost told when a flowing move saw Gabriel Jesus put the ball on a platter for Granit Xhaka, only for the Swiss midfielder to skew it horribly wide from a chance where scoring seemed more likely.
Arsenal did keep the foot on the gas, but Fulham held on gamely and withstood whatever that came their way, with former Arsenal keeper Bernd Leno standing tall. The second half began the same way, but Fulham scored against the run of play. Gabriel took too long dribbling the ball from his own penalty area, and Aleksandar Mitrovic bullied him off the ball and calmly scored. 
With Arsenal falling behind for the first time this season, this was an ideal test of their mettle, and they began upping the pressure. And it took just 9 minutes for them to level up, with skipper Martin Odegaard levelling proceedings with a strike from outside the box, albeit deflected. However, it was Fulham who almost took the lead again, with Mitrovic forcing a brilliant save out of Ramsdale.
With the game going to and fro, manager Mikel Arteta bought on Nketiah, who should have scored twice, once being denied by Leno, and the second by his own delay to shoot. However, it was the unlikeliest of the three Gabriels who scores, the defender atoning for his earlier mistake by being alert to the rebound in a mad scramble inside the Fulham box and tapping in an empty net. 
Fulham tried gamely to equalise, with substitute Chalobah almost scoring with his first touch of the game, but was denied by Ramsdale's outstretched glove. From there on, the Gunners smartly ran the clock down for an absolutely deserving, but hard-fought 3 points.