One of the chief founders of modern India, Dr Rajendra Prasad was a prominent freedom fighter, a celebrated jurist, an eloquent Parliamentarian, an able administrator, a statesman par excellence and above all, a humanitarian to the core. A devoted follower and a repository of the trust and confidence of 
Mahatama Gandhi represented all that is best in our culture.

Fondly addressed as 'Rajen Babu' by friends and admirers, was born in a remote village in Saran district of Bihar on 3 December, 1884-a year before the establishment of the Indian National Congress—the organisation he ultimately headed not once but thrice.

Prasad along with Pandit Nehru and Sardar Patel constituted the holy trinity that 
signified the Gandhian leadership of our freedom struggle.

Though Pandit Nehru had the highest regard for Rajan Babu somehow did not approve of his name when it came to electing a provisional 
President of the country. Panditji often used to impress upon C. Rajagopalachari 
and not Rajan Babu, would be the better choice for the highest office. But the overwhelming majority in the Congress party was of the view that Rajen Babu should be our President.

On Jan 24, 1950, the penultimate day of the final session of the Constituent Assembly, he was unanimously elected as the provisional President of India and took the oath of office on 26 January, 1950. It is indeed a rare honour that the person who presided over the Constitution-
making body was also bestowed the onerous responsibility of 
defending, protecting and preserving the same. Subsequently,
following the first general elections held in 1952 based on the adult franchise, he was elected as the first President of the Republic in accordance with the provisions of the Constitution.

He got re-elected to this office for the second term in 1957. In 1962, he relinquished the office of the President of India and was awarded, the same year the nation's highest civilian 
award "Bharat Ratna" for his devoted service to the nation.

Traditions and precedents set by him regarding the position and role of the President are of great significance for understanding and evaluating the Constitution.