The airline Vistara received an unusual booking request at noon Tuesday — “Mr Ballot Box” would be occupying seat number 3E on flight UK-637 from Delhi to Chandigarh that evening.
In the next few hours, a few other airlines got similar booking requests for namesakes of Mr Ballot Box who would be travelling to Bengaluru, Hyderabad, Guwahati, Puducherry, and several other destinations.
These are ballot boxes that are to be used in the presidential polls, scheduled to take place on 18 July. The President of India is elected by an electoral college consisting of MPs from both Houses of Parliament and legislators from states and Union territories. 
The Election Commission of India (ECI) Tuesday sent ballot boxes, accompanied by state-level election officers, to 14 states and Union territories, a senior ECI officer based in New Delhi told ThePrint. The first flight, the one to Chandigarh, departed at 5.10 pm Tuesday.
The comfort of Mr Ballot Box during the trip has evidently been a priority this year. In earlier years, he often used to travel to other states as hand baggage of officials supervising him. But this year, the commission has booked two-way tickets for him.
Interestingly, it’s always ‘Mr’ Ballot Box, never ‘Ms’. The passenger, going by ticket copies I reviewed, doesn’t mind travelling in economy class but has a thing for the front row, which usually has more leg space. “It is more for security reasons than anything else,” said the ECI official
After the 18 July polls, they’re all supposed to return to Delhi in 24 hours. When the votes are counted on 21 July, these boxes will play a major role in determining whether Droupadi Murmu or Yashwant Sinha will be the next occupant of Rashtrapati Bhavan.
Election officers occupy the seats adjacent to the ballot boxes. The officers are entrusted with transporting ballot papers and special pens to mark votes.
The commission had acquired this special right in 1969 from civil aviation authorities.

#Politics #PresidentPolls #India #BallotBox #Election