When you are facing stressful situations with another person, is it better for them to stay calm or be stressed out alongside you? Though it may seem intuitive that it is preferable for one party to remain calm, a study published in Frontiers in Psychology suggests that when the stress is validated, reactivity can decrease, but only for women.


Many stressful experiences in life are shared, from work problems to final exams to family drama. Despite this, most research has focused on individual experiences of stress and how others can support them.


Research has not delved deeply into how a shared reality or experience can change how people experience stress reactivity. This study seeks to address some lingering questions such as how a shared inner state could potentially affect an individual’s stress level and whether or not these effects will show gender differences.


More than 20 years ago, Taylor et al. (2000) theorized that males and females respond differently to stressful situations. Males exhibit ‘fight or flight’ responses and females exhibit ‘tend-and-befriend’ responses on average,” wrote study authors Megan R. Goldring and colleagues.


“At the outset, we thought that females who create shared reality could be those who experience less psychological and physiological reactivity to co-experienced stressors. This would happen because females must swiftly bond together to ward off threats, which would be best achieved when they have a shared reality about the stressor.”


For their study, Goldring and colleagues utilized a sample of 70 female undergraduate Columbia students for Study 1 and 102 heteronormative romantic couples cohabitating in the New York City area for Study 2.


Participants in Study 1 were asked to give a speech in front of a panel with a confederate. The confederate either agreed with the participant’s views of the speech, shares they view it in the opposite way, or does not express their opinion. Stress was assessed through self-report and physiological measures. Participants in Study 2 kept a 14-day diary of stressors and how much stress they experienced during the first year of the COVID-19 pandemic. 

Read more - https://www.psypost.org/2022/08/study-suggests-shared-reality-plays-a-critical-role-in-stressor-reactivity-among-women-63675