The idea of living on mars is becoming increasing popular since the world actually got to know the name Elon Musk back in 2019. This is mainly due to people becoming excited about the idea of mankind being a multi-planetary civilisation. What people don’t understand that our current technology is nowhere near what is needed to sustain life on mars. The two main reasons which back the idea of moving to mars is overpopulation and climate change, both of which can be fixed. If we scale the Netherland’s population density on the whole of earth land surface, we could theoretically house 75.6 billion people on the planet. 

But lets talk about the problems one would face living on Mars.


Martian atmospheric pressure is less than one percent that of earth which means a very thin atmosphere which means harmful solar radiation and micrometeorites (tiny stones flying like bullets aimed at buildings and your pressure suits visor). Moreover, on earth the coldest temperature ever recorded was minus 89 celsius measured in the arctic, On mars temperatures often go below -120. Even if you have a warm period the thin atmosphere just won't retain any heat. Mars’s outer core is also frozen solid meaning no dynamo effect meaning no magnetic shield meaning hazardous levels of cosmic radiation even if you dig in to avoid said radiation colonists will be exposed to higher than average rates for the rest of their lives that means after some years rates of cancer will be through the roof in addition gravity is one-third of that of earth so even though you would be able to lift heavy things and bound around, there's no telling what health problems low gravity would cause. The longest stay in microgravity so far is less than a year beyond that we can only extrapolate. How would the low gravity of mars affect pregnancies or your cardiovascular system, who wants to be the first lucky one to find out?. In light of these dangers as far as i can tell pretty cgi and sleek domes on the martian surface are complete nonsense.