Inuit in the Nunatsiavut and NunatuKavut regions of Labrador have shared a deep and enduring connection with caribou for many generations. But more recently — in the wake of dramatic caribou population declines — the communities who depend on them are being faced with a variety of cultural, emotional and health challenges.

Between the 1950s and ‘90s, the population of the George River Caribou Herd grew from about 15,000 to around 800,000. However, between the 1990s and 2010s, this same herd declined by more than 99 per cent.

Like many communities across the circumpolar North, Inuit have lived through previous caribou population cycles, but the exact causes for the recent declines in Labrador are not fully understood.

In response to these sharp declines, the Government of Newfoundland and Labrador enacted a total hunting ban on caribou in 2013, which remains in place today. Indigenous communities in Labrador have not been legally allowed to hunt caribou for almost a decade.

In order to preserve the relationships between Inuit and caribou, a multi-year documentary film and research initiative began to gather the knowledge of people throughout Labrador. It’s called HERD: Inuit Voices on Caribou (or the HERD project).

This Inuit-led project brings together representatives from the Nunatsiavut Government, the NunatuKavut Community Council, the Torngat Wildlife Plants and Fisheries Secretariat, Inuit community members and university-based researchers across Canada.

The HERD project
Between 2016 and 2022, we filmed over 80 Inuit from across 11 distinct communities in Labrador — hearing from a diversity of genders, identities, ages and connections to caribou. Through this work we produced several documentary films, one of which is available to view on CBC Gem.

The film is a portrait of the interconnections that exist between Inuit and caribou, a glimpse of the loss felt by communities and a testament of cultural endurance in the context of ecological uncertainty.

Read more: https://theconversation.com/what-the-declining-caribou-populations-and-total-hunting-ban-mean-for-inuit-communities-in-labrador-188277