The portions featuring the female footballers are marginally better, but I wish the makers had perhaps channeled some realistic in-game issues. A bigger problem is how the film never truly takes you by surprise. Almost every football game shown in this film ends 2-0 at halftime so there can be a comeback in the second half. You expect that this sort of film will be about corrupt selection administration. It is. You expect that during a crucial match, Bigil will not be around to guide them. He isn’t. It’s a formula so familiar.

Finally, I come to the whole female empowerment angle in this film. I address it this late and as a final topic because well, that’s how it is in the film. In a film about a women’s football team, you gain precious little insight into the lives and characters of these women, except for fleeting snapshots of their modest everyday lives. Even when director Atlee tries to add description, it’s generic and designed to draw sympathy. The dark-complexioned girl with weight issues.

The acid attack survivor (I quite liked how she gets back at the perpetrator). The girl suppressed by her marriage into a conservative Brahmin family. It is no coincidence that almost all of these issues are resolved by a Michael monologue. The film’s justification of his involvement is to add a twist to a popular adage and say, “Behind every successful woman, there is a man.” Even when a film is about women, it isn’t.

Ironically, this is a film that mocks a girl for giving out her phone number ‘too easily’.  This is a film that tries to pass off humiliation of an overweight girl — by having the protagonist call her ‘Gundamma’ — as inspiration. When this girl steps on to a football ground with rage, the earth is shown to be shaking. This is also a film that suggests that the pinnacle of a woman’s strength is child-bearing and rearing. “Football is nothing in comparison.” This idea gets reinforced in a line from AR Rahman’s Singappenney as well. Nayanthara’s Angel, save for a contrived scene with a Brahmin man movie of womens Motivation