Ladakh's breakthrough: Indian-Chinese troops to complete Gogra-Hotsprings disengagement by September 12. 
Having been stuck in a military face-off along the Line of Actual Control for more than two years, Indian and Chinese troops will conclude the disengagement process at patrolling point 15 in the Gogra-Hot springs area in Eastern Ladakh by 12th of September. 
"It has been agreed that all temporary structures and other allied infrastructure created in the area by both sides will be dismantled and mutually verified. The landforms in the area will be restored to the pre-standoff period by both sides, " said Arindam Bagchi, External Affairs Ministry spokesman. 
The disengagement process had it's outset right after the 16th round of high level military talks last month.
 "On 8th September 2022, according to the consensus reached in the 16th round of China corps commander level meeting, the Indian and Chinese troops in the area of Ghogra-Hotsprings (PP-15) have begun to disengage in a coordinated and planned way, which is conducive to the peace and tranquility in the border areas,"  joint statement issued by Ministry of defence. 
After the 12th corps commander level talks in August last year, the two countries withdrew their forward posted forces from the Gogra sector. 
Later in April, a proposal by China on disengagement of troops from PP 15 in the Hot Spring area was rejected by India. 
ANI reported, quoting government sources, that China had proposed Indian troops to move back to their Karam singh post between PP16 and  PP17 where it had to leave PP16. Although, China on its part proposed to withdraw its troops just behind the LAC or PP15.
 This led to multiple rounds of negotiations at various levels since then, and a mutually agreeable formula of disengagement was then reached. 
A joint press release issued by Ministry of External Affairs after the 16th Corps commander level talks said that the two sides agreed to maintain the security and stability in the western sector. Meanwhile Indian troops pulled back to their permanent post at PP 17, and the Chinese have pulled back 2 km north east of PP17A owing to the condition of not patrolling in the demilitarised zone.