An Australian court on Tuesday overturned a groundbreaking ruling from last year that obliged the country's environment minister to reckon harm to children from climate change as part of the approval process for a coal mine.

The Full Federal Court agreed unanimously in favour of the appeal by Environment Minister Sussan Ley against a judge's ruling that "she had a duty of care to avoid harming children when weighing approval for a coal project". 

The court ruled "the duty should not be imposed upon the Minister".

Australia is the world's no.2 exporter of coal used in power generation, in terms of export volume.

The original ruling, which related to the approval of a coal mine extension in the state of New South Wales, was seen as establishing a precedent for other mine applications. 

The case was taken by eight schoolchildren and a nun seeking to require Australia's environment minister to safeguard children from future harm caused by adverse impacts of climate change.

Some of the children had assembled outside the court in Sydney to await the ruling and were left in tears when the verdict came out.

"Today's ruling leaves us devastated, but it will not deter us in our fight for climate justice," Anjali Sharma, 17, one of the students who brought the original case, said in a statement.

Chief Justice James Allsop said the duty of care should not be imposed because the minister could not be held liable for "all damage by heatwaves, bushfires and rising sea levels to all Australians under the age of 18, ongoing into the future".

The court also said the duty would not fit with the minister's role set out in the environmental protection law that governs mine approvals.

In recent weeks, record-breaking floods down the country's eastern coast prompted a national emergency declaration as homes and businesses were swamped after a period of heavy rain. It comes two years after fires devastated a large swathe of Australia's most populous states. Both disasters were attributed to climate change.

Note: Emissions from burning the coal from the mine project were estimated at 100 million tonnes of CO2-eq.

Source: Reuters