In the final group game of Group C, Switzerland are all set to face Netherlands at Bramall Lane
on Sunday. Netherlands have already qualified for the knockout stage whereas Switzerland need a win to keep their hopes alive. Ahead of the crucial game, here is our preview.

In Group C, Switzerland find themselves in fourth position whereas Netherlands are on top of
the table with four points. Netherlands won one out of two games whereas Switzerland were
able to register only one point. They have a negative goal difference.

In their previous game, Netherlands ran riot against Portugal in a closely contested game.

Netherlands registered a 3-2 victory Damaris Eggurola, Stefanie van der Graagt and Danielle
van de Donk scoring for the Dutchess. Van de Donk scored in the 62nd minute to take home the
victory.

On the other hand, Switzerland registered a 2-1 defeat to Sweden after spoiling the shares in
the first game. Ramona Bachmann was on the scoresheet for Switzerland.

Switzerland vs Netherlands Match Details

Match: Switzerland vs Netherlands

Date and Time: 17th July, 9:30 PM IST

Venue: Bramall Lane

Switzerland vs Netherlands Probable Playing XI

Switzerland: Gaelle Thalmann (GK), Noelle Maritz, Luana Buhler, Rahel Kiwic, Eseossa
Aigbogun, Lia Walti, Coumba Sow, Ana Maria Crnogorcevic, Riola Xhemaili, Ramona
Bachmann, Svenja Folml

Netherlands: Sari van Veenendaal; Lynn Wilms, Stefanie van der Gragt, Aniek Nouwen, Dominique Janssen; Jackie Groenen, Danielle van de Donk, Sherida Spitse; Jill Roord, Lieke
Martens, Vivianne Miedema.

Switzerland vs Netherlands Probable Winners

Switzerland will take on Netherlands with a hope to qualify for the next rounds. Netherlands
have already qualified and are in fine form. We predict a tough battle between two teams to
ensue and the game to end in a draw.

Predictions: Switzerland 1-1 Netherlands

Switzerland vs Netherlands Live Stream

The Switzerland vs Netherlands game is available on the Sony LIV application and Sony
Network.