Ferrari have unveiled their interpretation of the revolutionary technical regulations introduced for 2022 with a digital launch of the F1-75. Ferrari say they want to fight for victory in every race with new F1-75 car, described as "radical", "daring" and "innovative"; Ferrari are completing a demo run in their new car at Fiorano on Friday, five days before the first pre-season test in Barcelona.

Without a championship in 14 years and on one of the longest droughts of their illustrious history, Ferrari are aiming to capitalise on the the clean slate of F1's rules revolution to challenge for wins and titles again this season.

While Ferrari are the sport's most successful and iconic team, in recent years they have dropped from perennial title challengers to midfield runners. But optimism comes from the team having improved significantly last year - finishing third behind Mercedes and Red Bull standings - and the fact they have long-been concentrating on acing the new rules.
They will try to compete for the Drivers Championship this season in a fierce-looking F1-75 car, which has a darker red and black livery - a nod to the Scuderia's oldest cars combining with the innovative design of these new F1 machines.
Carlos Sainz and Charles Leclerc, who finished fifth and seventh in the drivers’ standings respectively last year, will once again make up the team’s driver line-up.

Carlos Sainz called the car "aggressive, radical and beautiful", while team-mate Charles Leclerc admitted: "Expectations are very, very high."

"I'd like the F1-75 to be up for the fight on track at every grand prix to go toe-to-toe with our rivals," added team boss Mattia Binotto.
They switched attention early to 2022, even introducing a hybrid system late last year that was originally earmarked for its debut this season, and which performed very strongly.
Ferrari are the seventh team to reveal their 2022 challenger. World champions Mercedes will launch their season on Friday, with Alpine following suit on Monday.