International concern about Russia’s provocative stance toward Ukraine continues, even as Russian President Vladimir Putin denies plans for an attack — and Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy cautioned on Jan. 28, 2022, against the idea that “there is war here.”

Putin has built up more than 100,000 troops along the Ukrainian border, and the U.S. is ready to deploy thousands of troops. The U.S. has also asked the United Kingdom and other NATO allies to deploy hundreds of soldiers to Eastern Europe.

Putin says he will stand down if NATO prohibits Ukraine from joining its alliance – a demand that has been rejected.

Understanding NATO and its history with Ukraine offers insight into the weight of this ultimatum.

What is NATO, anyway?
NATO is a military alliance established in 1949 by the United States, Canada, France, the United Kingdom, and eight other European countries. Additional countries have since joined NATO — most recently North Macedonia in 2020. Thirty nations are now part of the organization.

NATO’s 4,200 staff members and member country embassies are headquartered on the outskirts of Brussels.

The alliance works with the United Nations, and the two are sometimes confused – including in my classroom, where I teach history of the Soviet Union and the Cold War.

But NATO does have some things in common with the U.N. Both are international organizations that participating countries financially support. Both are dominated by the political influence of Western powers, including the U.S.
But the organizations are not the same. NATO is designed to fight war, if necessary, with its military alliance. The U.N. works to avoid war through peacekeeping, political negotiations and other means.

NATO’s key, traditional principle is “collective defense.” This means an attack on one or more members is considered an attack on all members.

NATO has invoked the collective defense principle only once: immediately after the attacks on Sept. 11, 2001, when it deployed European military planes to patrol U.S. skies.

Full story on The Conversation: https://theconversation.com/whats-nato-and-why-does-ukraine-want-to-join-175821

Image Courtesy: https://media.gettyimages.com/photos/the-seat-for-ukraines-foreign-minister-is-pictured-prior-to-a-session-picture-id1236926303?s=2048x2048