By Medha Dutta Yadav

The biggest myth about India is that it is a largely vegetarian country. According to three large-scale government surveys, only 23-37% of Indians are estimated to be vegetarian. But according to a 2021 Pew Research Center survey, a vast majority of Indian adults (81 percent) follow some restrictions on meat in their diet. However, most Indians do not abstain from meat altogether. Only 39% of Indian adults describe themselves as ‘vegetarian’.

An authoritative study completed in 1993 by the Anthropological Survey of India found that as much as 88% of the population comprised ‘meat eaters’. In 2014, a national-level survey showed that more than two-thirds of the respondents identified themselves as non-vegetarians, with the states of Andhra Pradesh, Bihar, Jharkhand, Kerala, Odisha, Tamil Nadu, and West Bengal reporting more than 90% as non-vegetarians.

Contrary to recent assertions, since the oldest times, meat-eating has been prevalent in India. And why not? The lush forests of the country boasted an abundance of tropical animals, birds and fish.

Early men—in India, too—were clearly not grass-eating animals. They were hunter-gatherers. In fact, according to scientists and scholars, our digestive systems lack the anatomical adaptations of plant-eaters such as deer, cows, rabbits and other herbivores, which have a specialised system to digest greens comprising cellulose.

Also, with the discovery of fire and the means to control the same, Homo Erectus began cooking their food, and perhaps even Homo Habilis (the earliest of the ‘Homo’ genus). Fossils and stone tools of the time—dating back two million years—prove that animal foods were a regular part of their diet.

Archaeological evidence from the 5,000-year-old Harappan civilisation shows that a wide variety of animals were consumed. Also, the ritual of animal sacrifice was considered an important part of the Vedic culture 3,000 years ago.

One of the oldest Hindu sacred texts—the Rig Veda (1500 BC)—has written evidence that cow meat was consumed during the time, as many of these animals—horses, buffaloes, rams and goats—were also ritually sacrificed and their meat is partaken as part of the convention.

Read the full story here:- https://www.newsdrum.in/lifestyle/the-fuss-over-food-the-history-of-meat-eating-in-india-14903.html