Morbius has debuted at 19% on Rotten Tomatoes, this is based on 47 reviews. Every critic has bashed the movie, and it just isn't looking good for the Jared Leto's another superhero movie at all. Here are at what the early reviews from different critics look like:

Spencer Perry, ComicBook.com
"Morbius has the worst sequel-bait for a movie in years, featuring an abrupt conclusion that feels like reshoots and pre-viz have become intertwined.

Clarisse Loughrey, The Independent
"It can't be described as the wild, untethered disaster that some were secretly hoping for, either, because that would imply some level of creative risk. 

Evangelista, /Film
"There's no energy to be found in the film; nothing even close to a spark. Everyone shuffles through the film as if they're suffering from a cold medicine hangover. Venom is not what I'd call a good movie, but it never got boring. Morbius might very well put you to sleep.

Kate Erbland, IndieWire
"Even the most basic elements of the film are incomprehensible. Michael has all the trappings of a bad guy, but by the time he gifts yet another origami animal to someone he cares about, you'll have to wonder, this dude is a villain? (Leto, who notoriously immerses himself in his work, could seemingly find little here, his Michael is somehow both confounding and very boring.) 

Peter Bradshaw, The Guardian
"With a snarl, with a roar, with a facial morph into horrible sub-Voldemort nasal loss and then back to being handsome, the Marvel superhero-vampire Morbius is with us. And sadly his superpower is being bafflingly dull. His story unfolds with all the dramatic shape of a screensaver and then ends – to be followed by two plonkingly anti-climactic post-credit stings 

This won't do any good for the movie, previously Venom 2 wasn't loved by the critics but it did well on the box office, this isn't seemingly going to be the case with Morbius as it isn't getting that much hype or excitement around it. Its going to be interesting how Sony deal with the future of this universe now.