Pandit Kumar Gandharva was born today 8th April. Hewas one of the most famous Hindustani classical singers in India. Known for his unique singing style, Kumar broke the traditional method of singing the per diktats of the Gharana
Even before his career took shape, Kumar Gandharva was pinned down by a deadly disease – tuberculosis. The severity of his condition was so bad that he was told that singing could prove fatal and was asked to give up on what he loved the most. 

During this difficult phase, Kumar would spend time by listening to the songs of birds, the rumbling of wind and to the songs sung by roadside entertainers. Based on the doctor’s advice, he even shifted to Madhya Pradesh, hoping the dry climate might improve his condition. But nothing would improve his chance of singing until 1952, when streptomycin was introduced to India.

His first concert right after his recovery came in the year 1953. Because of his disability, he had to change the traditional method of singing and started experimenting with ragas. He refused to be tied down by any kind of gharana and believed in being innovative. He even came up with his own ragas by fusing the already existing ragas. Kumar also experimented with other genres of music like devotional songs known as ‘bhajans’, folk songs, etc. His unique style and creativity helped him compose songs in the same raga but with varying tempo.. His distinct style and experimentations won him accolades from music lovers all over, While experimenting with the traditional Hindustani classical music, he gave life to many new ragas. Collectively, he called them ‘Dhun Ugam Raagas’. Many such ragas like Madhsurja, Ahimohini, Saheli Todi, Beehad Bairav, Lagan Gandhar, Sanjaari and Maalvati are now widely accepted and practiced by many aspiring musicians. Another important contribution  was the creation of series of concert programs. He would choose a theme and then arrange a set of ragas and folk songs in a precise order in accordance with the theme chosen. ‘Geet Varsha’, ‘Geet Hemant’ and ‘Ritu Raaj’ were some of the themes chosen by him.