Ian Wright has been a consistent presence in British media for almost two decades. A man who seems made for the spotlight, he enthrals audiences in entertainment and sports media alike. Our generation may not remember a time when he was a prolific striker in one of the most celebrated football leagues in the world as much as they are familiar with him as a charismatic and insightful character on screen. Ian Wright’s foray into professional football came much later than one would expect for a player of his achievements. Until the age of 21, Wright played at an amateur club. He was signed at 22 by Greenwich Borough, a semi-professional club. Before he could complete ten matches for the club, he was signed by Crystal Palace for a transfer fee consisting of gym equipment. He scored 117 goals in 277 appearances for the club and was voted as Palace’s ‘Player of the Century’ in a 2005 poll. 
Wright was signed in 1991 by Arsenal for a then club record fee. He scored 31 goals for Arsenal that season and was also the top scorer in the league. He was Arsenal’s top scorer for six successive years. Wright was a mainstay for Arsenal’s successes in the 90s, including a domestic cup double in 1993. In 1997, at the age of 34, he became Arsenal’s all-time top scorer, overtaking Cliff Bastin’s tally of 178. 1997-98 was his last season at Arsenal, an ageing Wright was sidelined by injury in the second half of the season but won his first Premier League title.  He left Arsenal with 185 goals from 288 appearances for The Gunners. Between 1998 and retiring in 2000 he had spells at West Ham United, Nottingham Forest, Celtic, and Burnley. He was awarded an MBE for services to football shortly after retirement and was one of the earliest inductees into the Premier League Hall of Fame. Today, Ian Wright is many things – television presenter, pundit, writer, podcaster, and more. His exploits in football, however, will not easily be forgotten, especially by Arsenal fans and all those who experienced the joy of watching football in the 90s