Senate Majority Leader Charles E. Schumer vowed that the chamber will take action after the disclosure of the draft ruling.

“It is our intention for the Senate to hold a vote on legislation to codify the right to an abortion in law,” Schumer said at a news conference with fellow Senate Democrats.“ We will vote to protect a woman’s right to choose, and every American is going to see which side every senator stands on,” Schumer said. Yes, that's exactly what Americans need to know. He said that this draft is a signal that Supreme Court is ready to topple other precedents on issues including contraception and same-sex marriage.

Sen. Susan Collins, the supporter of abortion rights, issued a statement conveying surprise that both justices would join a draft opinion that would overturn Roe v. Wade. 

Sen. Lisa Murkowski, a Republican who supports abortion rights, told reporters that if the leaked draft opinion is eventually the final decision, it “rocks my confidence in the court right now.”

Sen. Lindsey O. Graham said judgments on abortion laws should be left to the states, in agreement with the leaked draft. According to Washington Post, he said “The Roe v. Wade decision divided America. It didn’t bring us together, [It’s] the most controversial decision in the history of the court. I always thought it was a constitutional power grab. So [if the draft decision] does hold and it is overturned, then it goes back to the states and let’s see how that proceeds.”

We all know what will happen in the states. Abortion would be banned in more than a dozen states, most abortions could be banned immediately. This would trigger laws already in place.

As the court heard the Mississippi case, some states became even more driving in passing abortion restrictions. Oklahoma passed its trigger law last year, and Republicans there also put into place a six-week abortion ban. Idaho passed a version of Texas’s controversial six-week ban, which empowers private citizens to enforce it. And many other states have recently passed abortion restrictions that don’t allow for exceptions for rape or incest. This will continue and act as a chain reaction.

Source: Washington Post.