A notable consequence of Russia’s invasion of Ukraine has been the near-complete breakdown of what was already a deeply fraught relationship among the permanent members of the UN Security Council.

Unsurprisingly, the war has also drawn diplomatic focus and media attention away from a depressingly long list of other crises facing the world body.

Efforts to overcome divisions and find common ground among key Council members on conflicts in places such as Syria and Mali have effectively ground to halt, giving way instead to a further sharpening of power rivalry and competition.

Considering these developments, the Council’s decision on 15 March 2022 to renew the mandate of the UN Mission in South Sudan (UNMISS) stands out as a major achievement.

Russia and China abstained in the final vote on mandate renewal. However, the decision ensures that the mission in South Sudan maintains its existing troop ceiling of 17,000 peacekeepers and 2,100 police officers for one more year.

The mission, which was first established in July 2011, will continue its focus on four major tasks:

protecting civilians

supporting the delivery of humanitarian aid

assisting the peace process

monitoring violations of human rights.

The mandate extension grants South Sudan’s Revitalised Transitional Government of National Unity much-needed time to complete the implementation of a peace agreement reached in 2018.

The agreement brought about a major reduction in violence arising from the civil war that started in 2013, two years into South Sudan’s independence.

As part of a transitional period, President Salva Kiir and Vice President Riek Machar formed a coalition government in February 2020.

The transitional period was expected to culminate in “free, fair and peaceful elections” in early 2023.

However, the realism of this ambition - given the many challenges and unresolved issues that lie ahead for South Sudan - is looking ever more questionable. That’s because the implementation of the peace agreement’s key provisions has stalled. It is now significantly behind schedule

Read more - https://theconversation.com/peacekeeping-in-south-sudan-its-a-race-against-time-for-the-un-182442