Google Classroom is your one stop website to teach and learn specially when you are stuck home in the middle of a pandemic. It provides secure tool aids to manage and deal with an educational environment in a student friendly manner. Also known as a Google Workspace for Education account, it is set up by an officially recognize institution. If you are unaware of the particulars of your Google Workspace for Education account, enquire from your administrator.

Google Classroom makes it user friendly to manage the work load of students to assess and provide feedback, thereby saving time.

Without a concrete administration  in hand, reassessinh online work can be unwieldy. Google Classroom brings in the efficiency with its numerous perks.

One can use this site to send informations and alerts and task reminders just like duolingo in that matter, and it's easy to check who has successfully completed their assignments. An individual's work can also be checked privately and private comments can be added regarding their work. 
A new class can be added by pressing the "+" button.
Here, google forms and automatically generated google spreadsheets can be made and circulated among the students which will be automatically assessed and graded for the students which provides them an instant feedback. 


When the candidate opens a particular class, they recognize the class through the name provided by the teacher according to the respective course.  
Use the "section" field to distinguish between different classes of the same type. Many teachers will use this field dusing their lessons.


NEW invite students using a link! Using the respective invite link, candidates will be able to enroll in a particular course by pasting the link in the learning class chat box or they can enroll using the entry code which ensures a quicker way to get them in the classroom. The login code helps students to sign in and "Join class" which automatically adds them in a particular class. Students can also mark theor presence during a particular written exam and interact with other fellow classmates regarding a particular material provided with the teacher, this ensures proper class discussions within students. 

 These are some of the perks of using google classroom and it comes with many more making digital learning user friendly. 