Chaitra Navratri is a major Hindu event. The Goddess Durga's nine manifestations are worshipped throughout nine days. Many devotees observe vrat for the entire nine days. Rujuta Diwekar, a nutritionist, gave three food suggestions for the holiday. “Upavas is a time-tested means of introducing diversity to our diets around the change of seasons,” she added in the caption. Diverse diets are recognised to boost health. The spotlight is on overlooked foods and recipes.”
Rujuta presented three strategies for increasing dietary diversity. We've also included several recipes.
1 ) Begin the day with a mix of nuts and dried fruits such raisins and almonds, dates and walnuts, figs and cashews, or apricots and pi Every day can be a new combo. Having these combos daily will keep you healthy.
You may satisfy your sweet tooth with date and walnut kheer. We generally make kheer for rare events, so a holiday like this could be an excuse to make it. You can also prepare anjeer kaju rolls using figs and cashews. This is a celebratory dessert made with healthy ingredients. Also, it can be made ahead of time and stored for a few days.

2) Include a traditional fasting food like rajgeera roti, thalipeeth, or sabudana khichdi. That or sama chawal. One dish per day.
An easy to prepare dish made with sagu or sabudana that is enjoyed during Navratri or other time of the year. This meal has roasted peanuts and other spices. It is usually served with fresh coriander leaves and curd. Another recipe is kuttu ki puri. It's quick and easy to prepare. Puris made with buckwheat flour and fried in desi ghee.
3) Sundals, amba dal, and chana poori are must-haves. You can cook using a different legume every day, depending on your region's customs.
Sundals are protein-rich. Don't forget to eat them during Navratri. Sundal can be made with kidney beans, chickpeas, green gramme, black eyed peas, etc. A simple sundal dish is chana dal sundal.
There are several ways to prepare kala chana. One recipe is kala chana rasedaar, which goes well with pooris.