Silence of many African nations over Russia’s Ukraine is striking, but not unexpected because many of these countries still have strong military or economic ties with Russia.  And there are some nations in the continent with “umbilical ties” with Russia from the Cold War era. These countries also have a memory of a bitter colonial past with some Western nations that are members of the NATO alliance. 

On March 2, when the UN General Assembly in New York asked members to vote on a resolution calling for Russian troops to withdraw from Ukraine immediately, 141 countries voted in favour of the resolution. Out of them 28 were African countries out of a total 54 in the continent; Eritrea voted against the resolution and the rest – 25 of them – either abstained or were absent.   

Among big African nations, South Africa conspicuously abstained from voting because they still have a soft corner for Soviet Union which had lent support to the country during apartheid liberal struggle during the Cold War era.   

Countries like Angola and Mozambique that have undergone little political change in their structure since the Cold War days still swear by historic friendship with Russia. These countries still have strong military, business and political ties with Russia. Angola still has a military academy with Russian instructors.  Central African Republic, Burkina Faso, Sudan, Libya and Mali’s head of states hire Russian mercenaries from the infamous private company Wagner group. Then there are dictators who depend on Russia for arms and military training as Putin has a resonance with most authoritarian leaders.   

To reinforce the Russian grip over the continent, Vladimir Putin organised a Russia-Africa Summit in 2019 in which 43 African leaders were present. Just a year after the summit Russia became Africa’s biggest arms supplier.

If the Ukraine war starts involving other nations across the world, towards a WWIII or a Cold War 2.0, many of the nations are likely to side with Russia.    

READ MORE: 

https://www.dw.com/en/russias-reengagement-with-africa-pays-off/a-61064011

https://www.cnbc.com/2022/03/03/ukraine-african-leaders-condemn-russia-invasion-but-some-remain-silent.html

https://theconversation.com/russia-ukraine-war-decoding-how-african-countries-voted-at-the-un-178663