By NewsDrum Desk

United Nations: Member states must ensure that measures taken to counter terrorism comply with their obligations under international law, a spokesperson for the UN Secretary General has said, asserting that the global body had “no information” about the whereabouts of al-Qaeda chief Ayman al-Zawahiri killed by a US drone strike in Kabul.

Zawahiri, who played a key role in the 9/11 attacks and later formed the group's regional affiliate in the Indian subcontinent, was killed in a drone strike carried out by CIA on Saturday at a house in a posh locality in the Afghan capital where he was sheltering to reunite with his family. US President Joe Biden made the announcement of his killing on Monday, declaring that "justice has been delivered and this terrorist is no more".

Zawahari had assumed the leadership of al-Qaeda after the death of its founder Osama bin Laden.

"No, not at all. We had absolutely no knowledge,” Stephane Dujarric, Spokesman for Secretary-General Antonio Guterres said, when asked at the daily press briefing on Tuesday whether the UN had any knowledge that Zawahiri was in Kabul, Afghanistan's capital.

In response to a question on the UN's reaction to Zawahiri's killing, Dujarric said the world organisation remains committed to fighting against terrorism and strengthening international cooperation in countering that threat.

"Member states must ensure that any measures taken to counter terrorism comply with their obligations under international law,” he added.

Zawahiri's death is the biggest blow to the global terror network since Laden was eliminated in Pakistan in 2011.

Dujarric noted that the UN is not a party to the 2020 Doha agreement, which had outlined terms of US withdrawal from Afghanistan and under which the Taliban had to ensure that the group will not allow any of its members, other individuals or groups, including al-Qaeda to use the soil of Afghanistan to threaten the security of the United States and its allies.

Read the full story here:- https://www.newsdrum.in/international/un-had-absolutely-no-knowledge-of-zawahiris-whereabouts-spokesperson-for-unsg-69746.html