The City of Greater Geelong's chief executive says he is "bitterly disappointed" after Premier Daniel Andrews and several government MPs publicly accused the council of mismanaging crucial community projects.

Local Labor MPs Lisa Neville (Bellarine), Christine Couzens (Geelong), John Eren (Lara) and Darren Cheeseman (South Barwon) penned a letter to the council, which was then published by the local newspaper shortly afterwards.

That letter detailed eight government-funded projects that the MPs claimed were "delayed, de-prioritised or mismanaged" by the City of Greater Geelong Council.

Premier Daniel Andrews backed the letter and has threatened to oust Geelong council from any involvement in the 2026 Commonwealth Games if the projects listed in the letter were not prioritised.

"If you don't want to get on with it, at least get out of the way," Mr Andrews said.

"Right now, we couldn't, with any confidence, involve the council in delivering the 2026 Commonwealth Games. That's not good. That has got to change."

City of Greater Geelong chief executive Martin Cutter said the MPs' letter contained "significant inaccuracies", but he did not detail which parts of the letter were wrong.

Mr Cutter said MPs were "offered briefings on any matter of interest" and could contact him directly at any time.

The projects included a new CFA station in St Leonards to replace the current station, which is 30 years old.

The letter said that, two years after funding was allocated, the government was still waiting on a planning permit from the council, "leading to the expiration of the original tenders, which is likely to drive up costs".

Public stoush 'not about blue or red', Premier says

The letter came three days after Geelong mayor Stephanie Asher announced her resignation from the top job after councillors expressed concern that she would not be able to work impartially, given her unsuccessful Liberal bid for the seat of Corangamite.

Ms Asher will officially resign as mayor next week.

Read more
https://www.abc.net.au/news/2022-06-10/geelong-council-commonwealth-games-vic-govt-threat/101142492