Watching Daniel Radcliffe in a different format is such a pleasure, just goes to show his amazing range. The movie originally titled The F (friends) Word, in some countries What if?. 
Wallace and Chantry both have dead end jobs and feel stuck in their lives and like a loser, Wallace feels a little more after he finds her girlfriend cheating on him. After meeting at a party they just have an instant connection but Chantry being in a committed relationship, he keeps his feelings, whatever they are, to himself and  just wants a friend to connect. 
Plot changes when Chantry’s boyfriend, Ben moves to Dublin after a promotion. He of course feels something for as they both have a bond, the movie includes awkward situations where they both had to sleep n****d in sleeping bag, Wallace had to help Chantry when she’s trying putting on a dress and get’s stuck but it turns out that it’s just not Wallace, Chantry too feels something but is confused.
Feeling guilty Chantry goes to see Ben where she catches him having his time to life and that this distance is not working, she ends her relationship. After a brief set of events following the breakup Wallace finally expresses his feelings to her and she responds, unfavourably, informing that she needs to focus on her career now and is  moving to Taiwan. Wallace does the dame.They both meet up at Chantry’s farewell party and, cupid finally works in the scene and they kiss and eventually Wallace follows Chantry to Taiwan and end up getting married.
The Rom-Com is definitely a must watch. It’s the basic story of everybody. Everyone ones in their life comes through this situation at least once, and the just in this is either it works amazingly as if you the stars are aligned or just disgustingly with expectations that ‘ We all our Hopeless Romantics ‘. 
On that last note, watch this with your loved ones because in a loving relationship either you start with a simple friendship or you become the best friends with them. 
And remember ‘ The Dirtiest Word In Romance Is Indeed Friendship ‘