By Niraj Sharma

New Delhi: With the Election Commission notifying the polling process for the President of India all eyes are now on the Bharatiya Janata Party over the declaration of its candidate for the top Constitutional position. The tenure of President Ram Nath Kovind is scheduled to end on July 24, and an election to fill the position of the 16th President of India will be held on July 18.

Sources stated that the final decision on the candidate is expected to be taken by Prime Minister Narendra Modi in consultation with his top ministers and party leaders.

The BJP is looking at fielding a person that could have an impact on the wider population and also send a message across the country over the party’s thought process. A woman, a tribal or a leader from South India may be chosen as the saffron unit's Presidential candidate, party sources stated. These three sections have been broadly discussed at various party forums and are expected to help the BJP in widening its voter base with a view on forthcoming Assembly polls and the 2024 Lok Sabha elections.

Woman candidate

There is a strong buzz that the BJP may select a woman candidate for the top post. With the women across the country believed to be strongly supporting the saffron unit and backing the initiatives of PM Modi, the party may well nominate a woman to the nation's top Constitutional position. With women being almost 50 per cent of voters on each seat of Lok Sabha and respective state assemblies, a candidate from the section is expected to send a positive signal to the electorate, party sources stated.

Scheduled Tribe

While the current President, Ram Nath Kovind, hails from the Scheduled Caste community, the BJP is seriously considering a candidate from the Scheduled Tribe community as the National Democratic Alliance nominee.

Read the full story here:- https://www.newsdrum.in/analysis/presidential-election-woman-tribal-or-leader-from-south-india-who-will-be-pm-modis-choice-for-nations-top-constitutional-post-44691.html