Starfield is all the news right now in the gaming community as it is probably Bethesda’s most ambitious project to date, and with the recently released gameplay footage, that really does seem the case. 

Landing on the moon of Kreet, the moon is just one of the 1000 planets the player can explore freely, with no limits, like in Skyrim. 

And just like its predecessor, the game enables the player to shift from third person to first person at almost anytime, and matching it if not outclassing it in scope, that is what Starfield basically is “Skyrim in space”.

As it is with Skyrim and other Bethesda games, the 15 min gameplay footage shows that exploration is one of the most crucial mechanics of the game, as the player must scrounge around for resources, pick locks in just a more modern and hopefully refined style, and of course engage in first person or third person shooter combat. 

Furthermore, if Skyrim did not feature enough character customization, Starfield is going to be even more detailed. And what’s more, the modding community is going to have a ball with this game.

Starfield also gives the ability to build your own outpost for generating resources across the planets, and you can hire characters you meet to keep them up and running. 

Just like you could build your own houses in Skyrim in some areas after becoming Thane, you can build your own space ships, pick your own crew members, and completely customize the look and layout of the ship. Flying looks a bit boring though, like a flight simulator.

The game also features an intricately designed world with an abundance of content, whether it is loot, creatures, characters, mods, locations and more. Of course, no Bethesda game can ever be complete without a boat load of bugs and the mods adding their own touch. 

Starfield is Bethesda’s first new brand in 25 years and features a whole universe full of wonders, and with any new news of Elder Scrolls 6 all but non existent, Bethesda is sure to grab player attention with its new “Skyrim in space”.