Australia’s class of 2022 is on the home stretch. Next month, more than 200,000 year 12 students will be sitting their final exams. In amongst this, they are making big decisions about their lives beyond school.
But research shows they are not getting the support they need as they finish school and move into the work or study that is right for them. Girls, in particular, are not getting the support they need.
This suggests careers support in high school is not working.
Careers advice at school
Careers education is not compulsory in Australian schools. There are guidelines such as the blueprint for career development. And the national curriculum up to year 10 calls on schools to “develop school-based approaches to career education […] to suit the needs of their students and the community”.
States and territories offer their own frameworks for years 11 and 12, such as Victoria’s careers curriculum framework.
These can be interpreted in a wide variety of ways. In reality, some schools may have dedicated careers teachers. Students sometimes seek private careers counselling. Others may have nothing.
Our study
Our Monash University study published last month surveyed more than 1,300 female school students in years 10 to 12. We wanted to know about how they were choosing their careers.
While we found more than 83% wanted to go to university, there was a significant degree of uncertainty about what next:
one third did not know what career best suited them
nearly 40% were concerned they were never have a “real” career
about one third felt “unemployable”
34% said they were doing subjects or activities with no sense of purpose
26% said they often felt down or worried about selecting a career
The also continued to nominate careers within narrow fields. Half of young women’s chosen careers were concentrated in areas such as medicine (16.7%), law and paralegal studies (12.1%), nursing (11.5%), the creative arts (9.9%) and teaching (8.2%).
Read more : https://theconversation.com/thinking-about-my-future-is-really-scary-school-leavers-are-not-getting-the-careers-support-they-need-190553