By Nisha Qureshi 

The Radio category this time at Abby Awards 2022 had just a Bronze and Silver winner. In fact, the number of entries from the radio players was also negligible this time.

BestMediaInfo.com spoke to industry leaders about the probable reasons behind the drop in representation from the category from industry awards like Abby’s and also the big question, which is – whether it was the result of an actual lack of creativity in radio advertising or just a lack of representation? 

Ramanuj Shastry- Director and Co-Founder of Infectious Advertising, who was also the jury chair for Radio craft for the 2022 Abby awards, said there are not enough entries from radio players. 

“The winning campaigns this time definitely stood out, but there were not too many entries, to begin with.  This is surprising because nothing is stopping them from entering their work in this space. Radio is actually very active with ads, integrations etc. Not enough radio players are entering their work for awards. Probably they are doing great work but we are not getting to see it. The number this time was very negligible, you can understand when you have only 2 winners,” Shastry said. 

On the other hand, ad veteran Agnello Dias believes that while there isn’t a lack of creativity, but it was the pandemic that might have affected the demand for radio advertising.

“I don’t think there is a lack of creativity. Radio listenership happens mostly when people are commuting like taking a train, bus, driving etc. In normal life, the audio medium is consumed when you can’t use your other senses. A lot of that was knocked down in the pandemic. This may have affected the quantum of advertising demanded by clients,” Dias said.

Adding to this, Bobby Pawar, Chairman and Chief Creative Officer, Havas Group India, said radio advertising today is becoming more inclined towards content because of RJ integrations, sponsorships etc. 

Read the full story here:- https://bestmediainfo.com/2022/05/indepth-what-is-killing-creativity-in-radio-advertising