Spoilers for Brahmastra Part One Shiva ahead: The epilogue of the film reveals some clues about the planned sequel and reveals a major character that fans seem to have decoded.It’s only been two days since Brahmastra Part One-Shiva released in theatres but the film has already sparked a million fan theories and speculations. Needless to say that this article discusses fan theories , scene of the film, which contains massive spoilers. Brahmastra’s first part focuses on the journey of Shiva and how he realises he is part of the hidden world of Astras. He discovers there is a secret society named Brahmansh that protects and guards these astras.Shiva is the son of two members of Brahmansh--Dev and Amrita--who had battled each other 30 years before the film’s events. Amitabh Bachchan’s Guruji, who heads Brahmansh, tells Shiva that his father Dev wanted to control Brahmansh and it was his mother Amrita, who stopped him with the Jalastra. Deepika Padukone played Amrita in a fleeting cameo. The heroes then learnt that the film’s antagonist Mouni Roy was a disciple of Dev, who wanted to ‘revive’ him.As the film ended, a scene revealed that as the Brahmastra did become whole again, Dev was revived. A short montage showed Dev’s giant statue break apart and a muscular, long-haired Dev emerge, with a trident in hand. As the scene ended, the sequel’s title was announced: Brahmastra Part Two: Dev. It is clear that the second part will focus more on Dev and Amrita’s story and fans are already speculating who will play Dev.While Dev’s face was never shown, many fans on Reddit have theorized it has to be Ranveer Singh. One wrote, “The kind of character they described- negative, egoistic- he would be perfect.” Another fan commented, “It has to be Ranveer based on the body structure of the actor shown, unless they just used a body double.” Other fans said that since Amrita was played by Deepika, it would make sense to have their hit pairing on screen. Some fans felt Hrithik Roshan was another candidate for the role.