BestMediaInfo Bureau 

In the first part of the series by Publicis Media, we explored the meaning of Metaverse, the various technological advancements that go with it and will help in building the Metaverse, and what some of the key players are currently doing. 

In this second part, we will be exploring what the Metaverse means to brands and the various opportunities that come with it.

Opportunities, Roadmap and Roles of Creative and Media 

We’ve seen how important the concept of identity is for users in the Metaverse. So how brands connect with consumers, present their products, and create the experiences needed for players and users in the Metaverse will be key. 

Before providing hyper-realistic user experiences, creating engaging experiences that draw users in and then the long-term engagement enabled through persistent Metaverse experiences is the key to achieving success. Brands need to establish a strong connection with the consumer to gain their attention, so let’s look at some of the opportunities which are being currently utilized by the brands to do the same.

Currently, there is a range of product and service categories in the market. While Metaverse is likely the future for all, there are certain categories for which Metaverse as a platform is more relevant (Level 1- Most Relevant) than some other categories. In fact, some of these have already witnessed brands creating engagement (eg- H&M, Vans-Virtual store, Nikeland).

The Opportunity for Brands

The Metaverse has the potential for seamlessly converging our digital and physical lives for an integrated and immersive experience. While it would be a huge leap of faith to expect that Metaverse would replace all our everyday interactions but it is set to become a part of day-to-day interactions and activities for millions of potential users over the next five years and this creates a plethora of opportunities that brands stand to benefit from.

PR-able Opportunities

There’s no denying that brands jumping onto the Metaverse bandwagon are making the most of the initial traction, drawing PR opportunities and greater visibility. 

Read the full story here:- https://bestmediainfo.com/2022/04/metaverse-impact-and-implications-for-brands/