Natural Emerald—The Gemstone of Communicative Mercury continues...

Another common kind of inclusion is the white feathery or flaky inclusion of the mineral. Other major emerald inclusions are listed below:

Spiral 

The spiral inclusion is caused by the tiny droplets of water trapped during 
emerald formation. 

Fingerprint

Generally finger print is caused by tiny gas bubbles.

Tube 

Phase inclusions.

Growth Structure

Swirl like growth structure 

Whispy/ Flaky/ Crack like Appearance – Inclusions of calcite, quartz and pyrite

Take a look at the MacKay Muzo Colombian emerald necklace, designed by Cartier in Platinum, now housed at the Smithsonian Institute, USA. 

This massive 167.97 carat emerald has excellent grass green color, Jardins visible aplenty, and a gigantic size that make it a treasure in itself! Flaky, crack like inclusions are clearly visible. 

For effective astrological results the Emerald should have a clarity level of 80% or 
more.

OIL TREATMENT IN EMERALD AND ACCEPTABLE LEVELS OF TREATMENT IN JYOTISH EMERALD

Precious gemstones are valuable, exotic and can command incredible prices. This single reason is enough to understand why there exist all kinds of treatments and processes that promise to make an ordinary gem material catapult into the league of scintillating gemstones that awe and amaze. 

Why are emeralds treated in the first place? 

That the gemstones are created over millions of years in unimaginably tough conditions is now a relatively well-known fact. 

This is especially true of emeralds that go through rough and tumble of time leaving it with cracks, fissures and marks. Most of the emeralds that one comes across have streaks of other minerals that crept in during its process of formation. 

There are numerous inclusions, often termed jardine/jardin inside the emerald crystal. There are hardly a handful of emeralds that come out relatively clear and without any streaks.

So what about all those beautiful emeralds that you have seen in jewellery that are clear, have beautiful color and beautiful cuts and come at a very-very affordable price? The fact of the matter is that 99 percent of the emerald mined today goes through some or the other process of enhancement and treatment. 

To be continued..