Along with 27,444 other people, I was in Milton Keynes for the Women’s European Championship semi-final between Germany and France on Wednesday night. It was a high-quality, hard-fought contest, the Germans eventually toughing it out over the more skilful French, winning through to the final where they meet the host nation, England, in a highly anticipated match.

Sound familiar? Germany have won eight out of 12 European Women’s Championships. In the men’s game, Germany has something of a hoodoo over England, winning ten of 13 tournament games since England’s World Cup victory in 1966. But I doubt these England women will be swayed too much by the past. We will see.

Watching women’s international football feels like – and is – a different world from the men’s version. Crowds at men’s football are ageing, but at women’s football, price, civility and increased safety means that around half the crowd can often be children (I took my own football-playing ten-year-old granddaughter on Wednesday).

Women and girls outnumbered men and boys comfortably in Milton Keynes – and booze was of less-than-secondary significance. Inclusivity, participation and diversity were the watchwords here, rather than partisanship and casual abuse of the opposition and its fans.

Infamously, the FA effectively banned women’s football in England in 1921 and it took more than 70 years for the governing body to embrace the women’s game. But the public profile of UK women’s sport has increased considerably. The live TV coverage in Britain of the FIFA Women’s World Cup in Canada in 2015 was the first time a UK national broadcaster, the BBC, had covered an international women’s sporting event on this scale.

This year’s Women’s Euros – and the success of the England national team – seems to have captured the public imagination. Around 8 million watched England’s semi-final win against Sweden on BBC TV. Newspapers are devoting multiple pages to women’s sports coverage and England’s key players are becoming well known. The media focus on the final will only intensify interest from now on.

Read more: https://theconversation.com/how-the-womens-euros-2022-beat-the-sceptics-to-breathe-new-life-into-football-187899