Eating avocados massively reduces the risk of heart attacks in men and women - including when eaten in place of butter, cheese or processed meats - a new long-term study has found.

Cardiovascular disease is a leading killer worldwide, taking nearly 18 million lives every year, according to the World Health Organisation.

In the US, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention says heart disease takes a life every 36 seconds.

Eating at least two servings of avocado a week reduces the risk of having a heart attack by 21 per cent when compared to avoiding or rarely eating avocados.

However, there was not an equivalent benefit in reducing the risk for stroke, according to the study published on Wednesday in the Journal of the American Heart Association.

The study author is Lorena Pacheco, a postdoctoral research fellow in the department of nutrition at Harvard T H Chan School of Public Health in Boston.

A serving of avocado, which is a fruit, was defined as “half avocado or half cup of avocado, which roughly weighs 80 grams”, Pacheco said.

The study followed more than 68,000 women and 41,000 men enrolled in two long-term government studies on risk factors for chronic disease: the Nurses’ Health Study and Health Professionals Follow-up Study.

All participants were free of cancer, coronary heart disease and stroke at the start of the studies and completed dietary questionnaires every four years over a 30-year period.

In addition to looking at the overall impact of eating avocados, researchers did statistical modeling.

They found consuming half a serving of avocado (quarter cup) a day instead of the same amount of eggs, yogurt, cheese, margarine, butter or processed meats, such as bacon, lowered the risk of heart attacks by 16 per cent to 22 per cent.

“The full benefit of routine avocado consumption observed here derives from swapping avocado into the diet, and less healthful foods out,” said Dr David Katz, a specialist in preventive and lifestyle medicine and nutrition, who was not involved in the study.

https://7news.com.au/lifestyle/health-wellbeing/eating-two-servings-a-week-of-one-fatty-fruit-can-massively-reduce-heart-attack-risk-c-6363209