To save money UK govt wants to cut 91000 jobs. This decision isn’t well-received by civil servants. The cabinet secretary said that the prime minister concluded "this matters all the more at a time when the government is focused on controlling expenditure and delivering the best possible value for taxpayers in challenging circumstances".

The prime minister's spokesman also commented it was up to government departments to "come forward with their plans" to cut staff numbers - and refused to pre-empt any specific measures.

"It's important for the civil service to be as efficient as possible and make sure there's no duplication," they added, saying changes in technology could allow departments to work differently.

The number of civil servants assigned in 2016 was 384,000 - the lowest number since World War Two - but as the UK readied to leave the EU, numbers steadily rose until they reached 475,000 at the end of last year.

The civil service is a very important job which provides public services and aids the government to develop and implement policies but is politically impartial. The work civil servants do touches all aspects of life, from staff paying benefits in the Department for Work and Pensions to people running prisons labouring for the Ministry of Justice.

Unions are arguing if you cut tens of thousands of staff, there will be an impending impact on what the government can do. Labour accused the government of "pointless rhetoric and lack of action" instead of implementing an emergency budget to offer more support to people struggling with bills.

A government spokesperson said that the prime minister and ministers were "clear that the civil service does an outstanding job delivering for the public and driving progress on the government's priorities".

This is a sheer act of demeaning the value of the civil service officers who are the real asset to the nation. Cutting out on civil servants is an act of foolery as they are very efficient than certain political leaders of the nation. This only draws the nation backwards and will trigger as many actions as it was supposed to prevent.