By NewsDrum Desk

Alphabet-owned Google dedicated today's doodle artwork on its google search engine to the annual Earth Day which shows the devastating effect of climate change, one of the most important topics of our time.

Google doodle is known to celebrate the most significant days, events, people, etc. from across the world with creative images or animated artworks. This time also on the occasion of World Earth Day 2022 Google has brilliantly shown the year-on-year impact of climate change on our planet using real-time images from its Google Earth platform.

Through its creative doodles, Google aims at spreading awareness about Earth Day 2022, so that we not only start thinking but also take some steps as individuals, society and nations to save our planet. For there is only one habitable planet i.e. our planet earth where we live.

The imagery used in Google doodle today will show you a time-lapse bringing attention to climate change showing imagery of several parts of the planet, including coral reefs, glaciers, and general greenery, which have changed from what it used to be say ten or twenty years ago.

The first Doodle includes real imagery of a glacier retreat at the summit of Mt. Kilimanjaro in Tanzania. The image used in the time-lapse has been taken each December from 1986 to 2020.

Another imagery shows a glacier retreat in Sermersooq, Greenland using the images taken every year from December 2000 to 2020.

The third image shows the Great Barrier Reef in Australia, showing the coral bleaching on Lizard Island in pictures taken every month from March to May 2016.

The fourth and the last image shows the Hartz forest in Elend, Germany, destroyed by bark beetle infestation due to rising temperatures and severe drought. The images have been taken every December from 1985 to 2020.

"Using real time-lapse imagery from Google earth time-lapse and other sources, the Doodle shows the impact of climate change across four different locales around our planet. Stay tuned throughout the day to view these scenes, each remaining on the homepage for several hours at a time," Google said.

Read the full story here:- https://www.newsdrum.in/culture/climate-change-earth-day-2022-google-doodle-shows-impact-of-climate-change-19061.html