Users can now use Google Pay's new Tap to Pay feature. Users can use this to make payments even without scanning a QR code. With this, payment is accomplished with a single tap.

It enables customers to pay with just one tap, as the name would imply. Using this, you can pay by tapping your phone against the POS terminal.

Using Google Pay's Tap to Pay feature, money can be sent using UPI. The business stated that the purpose of the release of the Tap to Pay function was to make payments simple.

You must be familiar with the tap-to-pay function on bank cards that allows customers to make purchases. Samsung Pay already has a comparable payment feature available. Together with Pine Labs, Google Pay has introduced this capability.

According to the business, customers can now pay by simply tapping their phone on the POS terminal rather than scanning a QR code or providing a cell number that is linked to UPI. The payment process is then finished after the user enters his UPI PIN.

Google has stated that any UPI user with an Android smartphone that supports NFC can use this service. At Pine Labs Android POS locations across the nation, customers may tap and pay with their smartphones.

You must first turn on NFC technology in your Android smartphone before using this feature. You must access the connection settings in the phone's settings to do this. Additionally, you can look for it by heading to Settings.

If your phone supports NFC, you will see its choice when you search. You turn it on. The new Google Pay feature can then be used. You must unlock your phone in order to do this.

You must then tap your phone on the payment terminal. It currently only supports the Pine Lab terminal, as was already noted. As a result, it will initially only function on the Pine Lab terminal.

When Google Pay is tapped from the phone terminal, it will launch automatically. Confirm the amount after that, then click "Proceed." There will be full payment.

What do you think about this new feature?