By Abhishek Kumar

Against the backdrop of the recent communal clashes that occurred during a Hanuman Jayanti procession in New Delhi’s Jahangirpuri, several videos are being circulated on social media. One such clip is making the rounds with the claim that a Qazi in Delhi announced that in retaliation to the violence, he would make life difficult for Hindus. The text superimposed on the video similarly reads, “We will make life difficult for Hindus.”

In the video, a man can be heard saying, “Muslims also have young men and the strength and weapons to fight everyday deaths and mob lynching. But Muslims are peaceful, and they want to preserve the Hindu-Muslim brotherhood. If they also take the path [of Hindutva goons], they will make it difficult for Hindus to live in this country.”

Columnist Divya Kumar Soti tweeted the viral video prompting authorities to take action against the “Qazi from Delhi” for threatening “Hindus and Jews”.

( Link https://twitter.com/DivyaSoti/status/1516281660408430594?t=uFgDjV9eQNiyG80HrTv0YQ&s=19)

BJP Delhi media head Naveen Kumar Jindal tagged the Delhi police questioning when will the Qazi be arrested. 

BJP supporter Arun Pudur also tweeted the video while stating that the man was giving death threats to non-Muslims. 

Editor of pro-BJP propaganda outlet OpIndia, Nirva Mehta, and Pakistani Canadian author Tarek Fatah further amplified the video.

Fact-check
At one point in the video, we can hear a reference being made to “Muslim Seva Sangathan”. Alt News performed a keyword search based on this clue and found the video on a YouTube channel named “Muslim Seva Sangathan Dehradun” uploaded on July 4, 2019. The video is titled, “Mufti Raees Bayan Muslim Seva Sangathan” (Mufti Raees’s statement Muslim Seva Sangathan).

ETV Bharat, Dainik Jagran, and Amar Ujala reported on the mufti’s statement. According to these reports, Muslim Seva Sangathan staged a demonstration at the Dehradun District Magistrate’s office on June 27, 2019, to protest against the death of Muslim youth Tabrez Ansari who was attacked by a mob in Jharkhand on June 17, 2019. Ansari succumbed to his injuries a few days later.

Read the full story here:- https://www.altnews.in/old-video-of-mufti-raees-viral-as-delhi-qazi-statement-after-jahangirpuri-communal-clash/?utm_source=website&utm_medium=social-media&utm_campaign=newpost