Celebrity Best Selling author Abhishek Kapoor told that Yumna Gulvez is not only the pride of her country India but also the whole globe.According to him little Yumna is the face of the next generation and said "Happy Birthday to Yumna.. Durlav has shared a lot of praises about you! I wish you good luck and prosperity in the future.. continue doing the good work and keep growing!" on her birthday.

 About Yumna Gulvez

Yumna Gulvez is a 15 years old bibliophile soul been a true believer of hardwork, dedication, creativity, patience and optimism,she is a trio world record holder for being the Fastest Solo-book Writer,Fastest Biography Writer and Fastest Manuscripter in the whole world recognised by Inkzoid Book Of Records,OMG Book Of Records and Glorious Book Of Records. Yumna Gulvez is also the founder of Serving You Publication, certified as India's Future Tycoon and firmly believes in revolutionary change through massive actions.Currently she is the youngest publisher in the whole world and her mentor is Durlav Sarkar who is a celebrity entrepreneur and multiple world record holder.

 Yumna Gulvez's Personal Life

A butterfly soul with high ambitions to fly high by filling colours in everyone’s life.Yumna Gulvez is a 15 years old girl, founder of a publishing house named ‘Serving You Publication' which is an unit of an international chain named INKZOID FOUNDATION and a writing community named ‘Penning The Pain’ with an award community named ‘Aspiring Awards’.

The author is working in other publications too, as a manager and an editor.
She is the chief editor of Instant Publication and assistant manager of INKZOID FOUNDATION.


“THE DEAD END” is a solo book written by Yumna  Gulvez with an aim to leave a different spark of doubts, questions and mind-sets in everyone’s life.
She is a world record holder for being the 'Fastest Solo Book Writer' and finishing it just within 1.5 hours including the final manuscript just at the age of 13 and INKZOID Book Of Records appreciates her hardwork and her name enters in the world record edition of 2021.