Have you given a thought about how athletes manage their skin conditions, swimmers are the ones mostly uncovered and for Olympian Ryan Murphy, his exposed skin means atopic dermatitis (AD) shows up. 

Murphy was diagnosed with AD when he was a child. The most common type of eczema, a condition that affects more than 9.6 million children and about 16.5 million adults in the US, as per the National Eczema Association. 

Murphy told Healthline, that, “It’s kind of a unique sport to have eczema. I’m in a sport where I’m walking around in a Speedo, so people are seeing a lot of my skin and [I’m] learning how to be comfortable answering questions like what’s on your skin? Is it contagious?” 

And this condition is not condition. 

The condition causes flare-ups of rashes and dry skin, which can be infected and can burn while being under water. Murphy often experiences flare-ups all over his bodies and it includes his feet, legs, knees, armpits and neck. 

Sun, stress, sweat, sand and salt water could trigger skin lesions, making his time as a swimmer more difficult. 

Coco Ho, a professional surfer who know Murphy's struggle well. She was diagnosed eith AD in her 20s after experiencing an itchy, burning patch behind her ear. 

“I originally just thought it was a rash, maybe a stress-related rash that would go away and I ignored it for some time…it would get worse and worse and I’d surf and hop in the salt water and it’d burn, so I realized it was something much more serious than a rash from stress,” she told Healthline.

The water lovers found a way for their condition and made ways to cope with AD so that they could continue their time in the water. 

Murphy’s through out plan is to stay mentally strong and focused while swimming despite the condition. His plan also includes preventive measured like moisturizing his skin, using towels made of soft, non irritating material, taking a shower after being in saltwater or chlorine and sitting on a towel or a blanket at the beach to avoid contact with the sand.

Sources - Healthline