After more than six years of hearings, the Delhi High Court is ready to deliver a verdict on the petitions arguing that marital rape should become a crime in India, only one of 36 countries where it is not. A 2021 study estimated that 5.4 million Indian women affected by spousal sexual violence required psychiatric counselling. Counsellors and experts narrate how the absence of legal protection is forcing survivors into a cycle of sexual abuse and silence.

Her drunk husband forcibly blindfolded her every night, tied her legs to a pole and “forced himself on her”—in other words, raped her—every night.

Jasodaben Bhil, 41, has over more than 12 years heard many accounts of a spouse sexually abusing a partner, and while she can recount many horrific incidents, this one appeared to stand out. 

“Such accounts unnerve us,” said Jasuben, as she is fondly called by her colleagues. Yet, these acts are not crimes because any kind of forced sex within marriage is legal in India, only one among 36 countries where marital rape in not a crime.   

A counsellor in Radhanpur tehsil with an NGO called SWATI (Society for Women's Action and Training Initiatives) in the Gujarat’s northern district of Patan, Jasuben narrated how when they took the woman who was tied up to a pole and raped by her spouse to file a first information report (FIR) invoking  section 498A (being subjected to “cruelty” by husband or relatives) of the Indian Penal Code 1860, the woman could barely mention what had happened. 

“For a married woman, rape by a husband rarely even makes it to the stage of an FIR here,” said Jasuben, explaining why she was anxious but hopeful about a case being heard more than 900 km away in the Delhi High Court, which will decide India’s legal trajectory on the issue of spousal rape. 

“Not a lot will change (if spousal rape is recognised as a crime),” said Jasuben. “But when you can name it, you can call it out, you can no longer deny its existence.” 

Read more- https://article-14.com/post/the-legal-exception-forcing-married-indian-women-into-a-cycle-of-sexual-abuse-and-spousal-violence-621d8c2d03a20