Early Moods may sound like a funny name, and while its cover art might make you think that this is a 1960s British psychedelic rock band, don’t be fooled, The LA based doom metallers’ eponymous debut is pure Black Sabbath inspired doom metal albeit with a more modern twist. A great turn on the heavy, dark, slow and brooding music of doom metal bands such as Black Sabbath, Pentagram, Saint Vitus, Witchfinder General, Sleep etc, Early Moods is a fantastic debut that is equal parts innovative, creative and brilliant, full of brooding, menacing heaviness and melodic overtones.

There is definite 70s Black Sabbath influence here with a blend of New Wave Of British Heavy Metal bands such as Judas Priest, Iron Maiden and Diamond Head given the sense of melody. There is a fuzz on the guitars combined with a heavy crunch, the bass is thick, the drums are packing a lot of energy, and the vocals are really great. The album also features some brilliant, menacing heavy riffs, with some great use of wah pedal.

Early Moods is just 41 minutes of pure, raging, sexy metal packed with innovation and good ideas accomplishing everything that a debut full-length should. The band gives us a neat introduction to their style of music, communicating their tastes and influences alongside their ambitions and the music pieces they may create in the future. While there is not much variety here, not a single track here is boring making Early Moods a wonderful listen.

For any artist, it is usually really hard to get it right the first time, but Early Moods definitely did get it right their first time around. The future prospects of what their debut could mean in the way of their songwriting is an interesting thought to ponder upon, and with this amazing marriage of gut wrenching heavy doom metal riffage with the NWOBHM influences, we could have the makings of a great metal band.




Score: 9/10

Highlights: Return To Salem’s Gate, Live To Suffer,  Early Moods, Curse Of The Light, Damnation, Funeral Maccabre