Relic Entertainment’s much awaited upcoming sequel to the classic real time strategy game Company of Heroes 3 is taking a more a dynamic and bolder path than before, swapping the old sequential mission-based campaigns for a sprawling turn-based campaign map, in which players position their armies as they deem fit.
  
The path to victory here is more akin to a tirade of bloody battles and skirmishes, almost like Saving Private Ryan. Complex vehicle shaders, specifically, will now change the appearance of tanks based on the environment they move through with another system that allows specific soldiers to appear with the patches and insignia, as well as helmet and other equipment, accurate to the history of their division.
 
Environmental destruction had always made a big part of the game though the third part seems to take this to a whole new level. "Environmental dynamics are a pillar of the Company of Heroes series," says Sachin Ryan, lead single-player designer. 
"Destructible environments in the game include buildings you can garrison, which take damage over time and crumble and collapse. If this happens the soldiers inside will die. This time we have two types of building: ones that will collapse and become impassable, and others whose ruins will create permanent, indestructible cover you can use." Furthermore, the physical rendering of environmental destruction in Company of Heroes 3 brings is also aesthetically and visually very impressive.
 
There is also an element of connectivity with the squads both on a visual level and a gameplay level. The squads are members possess a certain level of character and personality, with the inclusion of civilians and resistance fighters, adding to the realism in the game.
 
According to executive producer Steve Mele "Squad preservation is key to success in Company of Heroes. As you gain veterancy and purchase upgrades, they become super powerful and extra effective in battle. Players need to learn when to retreat and heal as well as attack. We want you to feel like keeping your squad alive is important." In other words Company Of Heroes 3 will do its best to make war feel like hell on earth.
 
 