Capernaum means chaos. And chaos means Zain’s life in a Beirut slum with his big family. He is a 12-year old, you barely agree to it seeing his sharp brain and tough face entire movie. He picks up any job around, clearly nobody to fall back on. Very protective of his sisters. Totally against his irresponsible, uneducated parents. Zain want things to be politically correct. Stay away from his rage for he cannot afford an innocent childhood.

Zain captures you completely in this Oscar nominated movie by Lebanese actor and director Nadine Labaki. Capernaum got a standing ovation at the Cannes festival and almost everywhere it was shown. I watched it in IFFK 2018, India where it received a standing ovation from a huge crowd in an open auditorium. I can’t forget the last scene; the only scene you see Zain smiles from his heart. And when it becomes a beautiful frame on screen, Capernaum receives its Oscar from the audience.

Nadine Labaki’s film grabs Syrian refugee crisis in Lebanon and how kids are victimised from the turbulent life of illegal migrants. Script forces the film to be bit melodramatic. Zain is a rebel who sues his parents for having him. But he is so empathetic to Yonas. Zain considers his mother’s situation and becomes the toddler’s responsible caretaker. That bond reminds us to value a child’s right to live despite miseries.

Capernaum is Zain Al Rafeea’s debut movie. He is shockingly resilient and convincing in his role. Shouldering the entire movie, this magical kid never seeks your sympathy. Director found this actor par excellence from the street of Beirut itself.

Capernaum is rich with heart-wrenching scenes. Here’s some put a lump in my throat.

Zain takes off his shirt and gives to his younger sister when he senses she got her first periods, outside home. He then steals sanitary pads from a local grocer and teaches her how to use it.

Toddler Yonas in chains while his mother is away at work.

Zain’s mixed emotions and acts while carrying Yonas in a makeshift pram through streets.