Information technology services and consulting company, Cognizant Technology Solutions Corp. has announced historic high attrition of 36 percent (combining Voluntary & Involuntary Attrition) in the second quarter, ending on June 30, 2022.
Currently, the company’s headcount stands at 341,000 employees globally. Almost 1.2 Lakh employees resigned from the company in the last 1 year as attrition was reported at 36% for the second quarter ending on June 30, 2022.
According to various media reports, this is now under the spotlight after one analyst has advised the board of Cognizant to observe the company’s underperformance, and possibly even consider replacing the incumbent boss, Brian Humphries.
Wedbush Securities, a privately held investment firm based in Los Angeles said: “there is an inevitable, imminent urgency of addressing these points” as Cognizant’s current “technique of avoiding/not competing” for large deals is “unprecedented” since every IT services firm is competing for multi-year multi-million work from Fortune 500 clients.
Moshe Katri, Managing Director, Equity Research, Wedbush Securities in a notice dated 29 July mentioned, “We maintain our Outperform rating on CTSH despite a host of ongoing execution challenges, leading to the company’s significant relative underperformance (growth rates) vis-a-vis its peers.
“During a time which some would categorize as the best IT spending environment since Y2K, as we believe, that ultimately The Company’s Board is bound to act upon these issues, leading to leadership changes at the helm”, Moshe Katri added.
This is an uncommon rebuke from the analyst who has lined the data expertise providers sector for over 20 years.
Moshe Katri has mentioned a few points, “At its current form, Cognizant is probably one of the most under-appreciated platforms in the sector. During the past few years, and under the leadership of Brian Humphries (since April 2019).
IT services firm Cognizant on July 28, 2022 reported a net profit of $577 million for the second quarter ended June 30, up 12.7 per cent from the year-ago period. The company’s attrition was highest compared to peers.