Niramish means vegetarian, thmajor ingredients in this version of  chorchori is phulkopi'r data (cauliflower stem) (a spicy mish-mash). This dish is best made during the winter months when cauliflower is in season. The stalk of such cauliflower is kochi (tender), which implies it is not only less fibrous but also less astringent than off-season cauliflower stalks. Potatoes, pumpkin, brinjal, and tomatoes lend a range of flavours and textures to this chorchori. Mustard paste is the most prominent spice, giving it a spicy flavour. 
INGREDIENTS
150 g Phulkopir data (Cauliflower stalks)
120 g Pumpkin
80 g Brinjal
60 g Sheem (Broad beans)
60 g Potato
3 pcs Green chillies
6 g Coriander leaves
25 g Mustard seeds
1 pc Dried red chilli
0.25 tsp Kaalo jeere (Nigella seeds)
0.25 tsp Turmeric
6 pcs Dal Bori
35 g Mustard oil
10 g Salt
15 g Sugar
METHOD
Grind mustard to a fine paste along with 2 green chillies and 60 g water. Set aside.
Separate the stalk from the cauliflower and wash them thoroughly. Cut them into fine, 2mm matchsticks, cut potatoes in 2cm-wide wedges, pumpkin in 3cm cubes and brinjal in 5cm-long segments. Also halve the sheem, roughly chop the tomato, slit green chillies and finely chop coriander leaves.
Heat 20 g mustard oil in a pan. Fry the dal’er bori in it for about 20 seconds until golden-brown. Drain from the oil and set aside.
Now temper the oil with dried red chillies and kaalo jeere.
Add potatoes, pumpkin and cauliflower with stalks on high heat fry for 2 minutes. Similarly, add rest vegetables accordingly at 2-minute intervals from one another and continue frying. Next, add turmeric, salt and sugar and continue frying. 
After about 2 minutes add the mustard paste. Saute on medium heat until the raw smell of mustard is gone. If during this time you find the mustard sticking to the pan, deglaze it with a splash of the water.
Break up the fried bori into tiny shards and add it to the pan, along with a slit green chilli. Cook for a couple more minutes before adding chopped coriander on top as garnish.