Taking a look at the Bat Family in the DC universe, we see a lot of love, care, affection, help and support given by each memeber to the other. We all love Alfred, the grandfather of the bunch, whose sturdy, silent support means a lot to the Kids. Bruce certainly tries his best, but along the way he got possessed and blindsided because of batman and the work Batman pushes himself into relentlessly, he became less of the father you see when he adopted Richard Grayson. Don't get him wrong, he loves all of them without bounds, but his conflict of interests due to having a different persona and beliefs as the Dark Knight, have led him astray at times. Jason Todd, the second adopted son, suffered a cruelty no human should ever have to at the hands of the Joker and came back broken and manipulated at the hands of a centuries old, manipulative man. In his case, we see jealousy, fear of abandonment, fear of never being loved, hatred due to fears and facts, distrust and a whole lot of angst due to miscommunication and differences of opinion. Tim Drake, neglected severely by his birth parents, selflessly helped the Wayne Family piece itself together again, but also suffered due to his and the others fears getting in the way of being able to express themselves. Stephanie Brown was also caused a pain no one should go through with mantle of Robin on her shoulders but she bounced back well. Cassandra Cain, an incredibly perceptive, intelligent girl, abused, neglected and manipulated in the worst ways, finds her true beautiful self with the family and dons the mantles of Batgirl, Black Bat and Orphan lastly. Damian Wayne, having been taught the unhealthy things by his mother and grandfather, the sole blood son of the Bat, has a learning curve with Bruce and Richard as his Batman and grows out of their wrongful lessons. The family helps each other to learn and to grow to be able to live in the cruel world they do, with an arsenal of methods they hope to keep themselves safe, are sometimes not enough.