January 1, 2022 witnessed a massive outcry of feminist campaigners throughout France as three women were brutally murdered within a span of 24 hours. All of them were killed by their current or former partner.

Police in Nice found the corpse of a 45-year-old woman in the trunk of a car; her husband confessed to have strangled her. At Meurthe- et-Moselle, eastern France, a 56-year-old woman was stabbed to death by her husband after an argument. Near Saumer, western France, a soldier was arrested for killing his 27-year-old partner, a woman soldier following an argument. 

The activists at Nous Toutes and Feminicides Par Compagnons ou Ex blasted the failure of President Emmanuel Macron's government to protect these women from brutal gender-based violence. These femicides are not isolated cases, rather a continuation of 113 such murders in 2021. In 2020, 102 femicides were officially recorded. Besides, the number of law enforcement interventions for intra-family violence was a whopping 400,000 in 2020. Almost every day, specialist police have to free women or children who are being held hostage by perpetrators . 

The question arises why women’s condition in France is so miserable. Conjugal killings are carried out by frustrated men who think they have the right to kill their partners because of the patriarchal education they receive. They consider their women and children as their property and can do anything with their lives. 

Last year in August, the interior minister Gerald Darmanin announced some measures to combat violence against women and girls – urging for intervention by law enforcement agencies, giving priority to the complaints of conjugal violence and ensuring that each police station have at least one specialist officer for female victims. But obviously this is not working. It seems tougher legislation is required, including allowing women to conceal their address after being separated from a violent partner.

Above all, proper training and education is necessary in schools, lycees and colleges to prevent such crimes. Nous Toutes demands all presidential candidates make concrete promises that include extra personnel, money and materials to address the question of gender-based violence.

READ MORE:

https://www.euronews.com/2022/01/04/feminist-groups-denounce-french-government-s-silence-after-new-year-s-day-femicides 

https://edition.cnn.com/2022/01/08/europe/france-spain-femicide-intl-cmd/index.html 

https://www.theguardian.com/world/2022/jan/03/new-years-day-killings-spark-call-for-action-to-tackle-violence-against-women-in-france