By Nisha Qureshi and Tanzila Shaikh 

Google has announced that it will allow users to personalise their advertising experience. The tech giant will roll out new features at the end of the year which will let users follow topics they like and receive ads from only the brands that fit in the narrative. They will also be able to unfollow the ceratin “sensitive” topics if they wish. The users can change these settings in the ‘My Ads’ feature.

( Link https://twitter.com/Google/status/1524450999263535104?s=20&t=gw12tibP-JqxIW3d3qaoHQ)

While it can be like shooting in the dark for many advertisers, it can also be a boon to many as Google is trying to build first-party data by having stringent rules and encouraging audiences to put forth their preferences.

On this development, Gowthaman Ragothaman, CEO, Aqiliiz, said, “The company is offering a solution saying that they respect consumers' privacy and therefore the consumers' choice is their priority. This is an interesting step and it logically makes sense. This is only applicable when I sign up with my Gmail address. People have to sign up to the search engine or youtube to enable this rule by google. Thereby forcing people to sign up and show their preferences.”

Once they sign up, it's first-party data to google. I have already given consent to google. Now, they have given an enhanced feature saying that you can choose to see what you want to see. Therefore it forces brands to build their own first-party data. If brands don’t have first-party data, they will be shooting in the dark. When they will have first-party data, the targeting will significantly improve.”

Many consumers discover certain brands that they had never seen before because of the advertisements they see. With My Ad Centre, chances are there that this will get impacted. Although experts have a different opinion on this.

According to Ambarish Ray, Co-founder & CEO, Digital Dogs Content and Media, discoverability will be a challenge. He said that although the playing fields will shrink, the audience experience won’t be affected.

Read the full story here:- https://bestmediainfo.com/2022/05/indepth-googles-new-ad-rules-will-lead-to-permissionbased-online-advertising-brands-may-struggle-in-terms-of-discoverability