Pope Francis fulfilled the Truth and Reconciliation Commission’s (TRC) Call to Action No. 58 by offering an apology, in Canada, to the survivors of Indian Residential Schools, their families and communities. He said, “I am sorry,” and asked forgiveness for the participation of church members in “projects of cultural destruction and forced assimilation.”

This was on the first day of a five-day visit in Canada — what the Pope has called a “penitential pilgrimage.”
The Pope spoke at Maskwacis, near the site of the former Ermineskin Residential School in Alberta. However, the apology came seven years after the call was issued by the TRC — and did not definitively acknowledge the role of the church itself in the residential school system.

After the Pope had spoken, Chief Judy Wilson of Union of B.C. Indian Chiefs called out for the Pope to repeal the Doctrine of Discovery. Such a response reveals one of many gaps in the Pope’s statement. The Doctrine of Discovery provided theological and legal justification for the dispossession of Indigenous lands by European colonizers and has been the basis for the Crown’s assertion of sovereignty.

Meaning of an apology
My reflection and analysis are rooted in my perspective as a white settler and a scholar of church apologies for historical wrongs. They also reflect very initial impressions. It is not for me to say what the apology means to survivors. In reality, the meaning of an apology is not fully determined by the words that are said but by the actions that follow.

Whether this apology has truly advanced the goal of healing may become evident only in years and decades to come. It is also possible that the Pope will make additional statements, with further nuance, throughout his visit.

‘Deplorable evil’
Like Pope Francis’s statement in Rome on April 1, this apology acknowledged the suffering experienced by those in Indian Residential Schools, including loss of culture, language and spirituality, and “physical, verbal, psychological and spiritual abuse.” 

Read more: https://theconversation.com/popes-long-awaited-apology-for-indian-residential-schools-in-canada-is-a-first-step-187342