PROCEDURE
Preheat the oven to 100℃ (210℉) and use a thermometer to verify the oven temperature – this is the key to a good creme brûlée. 
Add the whole fat milk and heavy whipping cream into a medium saucepan on low heat. 
Add pure vanilla extract (1 tablespoon) or 1 vanilla bean. Bring the milk/cream/vanilla mixture to a boil while stirring well, and then immediately turn off the heat. Set the saucepan aside to cool for 10-15 minutes. 
Separate the four egg yolks and add them to a medium-sized mixing bowl along with the granulated white sugar. Mix together the egg yolks and sugar gently with a wooden spoon. Do not use a whisk. We do not want foaming. 
When the mixture has cooled to “lukewarm,” place a wire mesh sieve over the yolk/sugar mixing bowl. Gently mix everything togetherWhen the sugar has dissolved, pour in the remaining mixture through the sieve and mix gently, but thoroughly. You do not want to create “foaming.” 
Now, carefully sieve/pour the crème mixture again into a measuring cup for easy pouring into your ramekins.Place your ramekins, pour equal amounts of crème thru the fine wire mesh sieve and into each ramekin.
Cook the crèmes for 45-60 minutes on the sturdy baking tray in the oven on the lower rack at 100℃ (210℉). The crèmes are cooked when they are firm on the outer edge and just slightly wobbly in the center. 
Tap Test: gently tap the side of the ramequins with your finger to see if the center of the creme wobbles.  When the crèmes pass the tap test, remove the tray from the oven and allow the ramekins to cool to room temperature. After 30-40 minutes, move them into the refrigerator for at least 2 hours to set (overnight is best). 

When the custard is ready and just before serving, take the crème brûlées out of the refrigerator and sprinkle a layer of brown sugar on top of the custard, as evenly as possible. Each 4-ounce ramekin will need between 1 teaspoon and 1 tablespoon of brown sugar (depending on the size of the ramekins and your own taste).