Include these vitamin D-rich foods in your diet for a healthy and strong body

"Our immune system requires essential vitamins and minerals to function properly and guard the body against illnesses and immunodeficiency problems," said Tanvee Tutlani, celebrity nutritionist

We all are aware about how nutritious and balanced diet play a vital role in one's health. Experts state that the most common reasons for an increase in chronic diseases and obesity is due to proper lack of nutrition and poor eating habits. 

“Our immune system requires essential vitamins and minerals to function properly and guard the body against illnesses and immunodeficiency problems,” said Tanvee Tutlani, celebrity nutritionist, dietitian and corporate health educator, adding that vitamin D is one such important micronutrient required for optimal body functioning, normal immune functioning, and growth and development of bones and teeth.

She stated “Deficiency of vitamin D has been associated with diabetes, cardiovascular diseases, weight gain, autoimmune disorders, neuromuscular diseases, flu, osteoporosis, cancer, etc. Since vitamin D is produced naturally in the skin in response to sunlight, it is also known as ‘sunshine vitamin’. However, certain foods can help to ensure an adequate level of fat-soluble vitamin D in the body,”

Scroll on to explore the wide range of Vitamin D - rich foods that can be a part of your diet.

Mushrooms
Mushrooms are one of the most potent non-animal sources of vitamin D2, D3, and D4. Like humans, mushrooms tend to synthesise vitamin D when they are exposed to the ultraviolet light of the sun. Include mushrooms in your diet at least four times a week to fulfil the body’s vitamin D requirement.

Cheese
One of the most relished food items around the world, cheese contains a decent amount of vitamin D. Out of all kinds, ricotta and cheddar are the most rich sources. 

Fortified yoghurt
Yoghurt is an easy and convenient snack that is not only great for gut health but also for the bones. Consuming fortified yoghurt can help to fulfill approximately 10-20% daily requirement of vitamin D. 

Read more - https://www.google.com/amp/s/indianexpress.com/article/lifestyle/health/vitamin-d-foods-sunlight-bone-health-7732775/lite/