How important is the Osun River to Nigeria?The Osun River is one of the major rivers in southern Nigeria, draining into the Gulf of Guinea. The river takes its source from Ekiti State. But it’s culturally linked to the ancient city of Osogbo. A stretch of the river that flows by a sacred grove in the ancient town of Osogbo has been designated a UNESCO World Heritage Site due to its cultural significance. It is one of two such designated sites in Nigeria.The river provides a wide range of cultural ecosystem services such as natural scenes for eco-tourists and the site for filming Nollywood movies. A large number of foreign tourists visit the river each year. The visits are either to pay homage to the river goddess (Osun) or to join others in celebrating the annual Osun festival.The river also has enormous environmental value given its rich biodiversity. It supports plankton, snakes and  endangered plants.Along its whole course, the Osun River also plays a critical part in supporting the livelihoods of people. In many areas of Osogbo and Osun State, it provides irrigation for nearby farmlands. A significant number of abattoirs are also situated close to the river bank along several stretches of its course.The Osun River flows through other human settlements in southwest Nigeria as well as the historic city of Osogbo.What are the main sources of the pollution?Plastic pollution is the main one. My research has shown that some aquatic snails and insects of the river carry microplastic pollutants. Plastic pollution is a common phenomenon in many inland waters of Nigeria.Heavy metals also pollute the river. Heavy metals like gold, mercury and cadmium occur naturally in the Earth’s crust. But they can also be introduced through domestic and industrial wastes, or atmospheric sources. Heavy metals can be amplified by human activities like waste deposition or mining.Read more: https://theconversation.com/nigerias-sacred-osun-river-supports-millions-of-people-but-pollution-is-making-it-unsafe-191152