by Jayanta Bhattacharya

West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee may have reached out to the victims of Bogtui village arson in Birbhum district. The embers may be dying. The stench of burning may be dispersing. But will the scar in people’s minds ever heal? A fear will forever lurk – when next, where next?

Residents are reportedly reluctant to return home after violence danced naked early this week, barely 70 km from Rabindranath Tagore’s ‘Abode of Peace’ (Santiniketan), in the same district. Eight people, including two children, were charred to death in Bogtui village. The carnage took place hours after the murder of Trinamool Congress (TMC) panchayat leader Bhadu Sheikh on Monday, March 21. According to autopsy reports, all eight were beaten before they were burnt to death.

“Earlier, there was a class struggle. There was a political struggle. But now, it is all about money,” said veteran journalist Biswajit Bhattacharya. In 2019, Mamata Banerjee herself admitted that “cut-money” was being collected by her own party members. She then warned leaders against the practice and said she will step up vigil and ensure strict action against perpetrators.


Cut-money refers to greasing the palms of people in power who are entrusted with the disbursement of government funds for relief and rehabilitation. This amount sometimes is allegedly as high as 70 to 80 per cent of the compensation amount. Many eyebrows were raised then, since she stated this from a public platform while addressing district leadership in an auditorium. But the practice still goes on, as alleged in certain quarters.

“In rural and semi-rural Bengal, a parallel economy has emerged. In the absence of economic activities, there is an increase in illegal practices. Unemployment is leading to a spurt in illegal mining and trading in stones and sand. Then at the (Bangladesh) border, there is the smuggling of cattle, gold, arms… even humans,” alleged Bhattacharya.

Read the full story here:- https://theprobe.in/birbhum-violence-not-the-first-time-and-probably-wont-be-the-last/