At the same time as the World Human Rights Council meeting on the status of women in Afghanistan, the spontaneous movement of Afghanistan's protesters in a letter called on the organization to hear their voices standing against the Taliban.
The UN Human Rights Council meeting on Afghan women will be held on Friday.

At the emergency meeting, the World Human Rights Council examines the human rights situation in Afghanistan under the rule of the Taliban, especially women and girls.
The 50th meeting of the United Nations Human Rights Council began on June 5 in the Swiss capital, June 9, and will continue until July 6.

Earlier, the EU countries had called on the United Nations Human Rights Council to pay close attention to the deterioration of the human rights status of women and girls in Afghanistan.

In a letter to the World Human Rights Council, protesting women referred to increasing restrictions and violence against women since the Taliban's empowerment.

The letter said that the Taliban and other terrorist groups consider women to be less than humans.
Protesting women say it is clear that the Taliban believe that women behind a long black veil have no human status or right to continue their education or work.

Following the Taliban's arrival in Kabul on August 7, a number of women in Kabul and various provinces of Afghanistan protested against the Taliban and its policies.

Protesting women in their letter have taught the issue of harassment of female civil society activists by the Taliban. These women say that because of the atmosphere of the Taliban's fear, they are protesting in closed and secret places.
Women's protest movements continued months after the Taliban's dominance, but the Taliban have so far responded to these civil moves by suppressing, arresting and torturing.

What has so far been reflected as the demands of women in Afghanistan has been the access to citizenship rights such as education, poverty elimination, and women's political and social activity.