Of all the super healthy greens, kale is king. It is definitely one of the healthiest and most nutritious plant foods in existence.Kale is loaded with all sorts of beneficial compounds, some of which have powerful medicinal properties. Here are 6 health benefits of kale:

1. Kale Is Among The Most Nutrient-Dense Foods on The Planet: Kale contains very little fat, but a large portion of the fat in it is an omega-3 fatty acid called alpha linolenic-acid. Given its incredibly low calorie content, kale is among the most nutrient-dense foods in existence.Eating more kale is a great way to dramatically increase the total nutrient content of your diet.

2. Kale Is Loaded With Powerful Antioxidants: Kale, like other leafy greens, is very high in antioxidants. These include beta-carotene and vitamin C, as well as various flavonoids and polyphenols.Antioxidants are substances that help counteract oxidative damage by free radicals in the body.

3. It Is an Excellent Source of Vitamin C: Kale is extremely high in vitamin C, an antioxidant that has many important roles in the body.A single cup of raw kale actually contains more vitamin C than an orange.

4. Kale Can Help Lower Cholesterol, Which May Reduce The Risk of Heart Disease: Kale contains substances that bind bile acids and lower cholesterol levels in the body.Steamed kale is particularly effective.

5. Kale Is One of The World’s Best Sources of Vitamin K: Vitamin K is an important nutrient. Kale is one of the world’s best sources of vitamin K, with a single raw cup containing almost 7 times the recommended daily amount.The form of vitamin K in kale is K1, which is different than vitamin K2. K2 is found in fermented soy foods and certain animal products. It helps prevent heart disease and osteoporosis.

6. Kale Is Very High in Beta-Carotene: Kale is often claimed to be high in vitamin A, but this is not entirely accurate.It is actually high in beta-carotene, an antioxidant that the body can turn into vitamin A. For this reason, kale can be an effective way to increase your body’s levels of this very important vitamin.