PCOS and PCOD are essentially the same. As such there is no major difference between PCOS and PCOD. PCOD (Polycystic Ovary Disease) is an outdated term used to now define PCOS (Polycystic Ovary Syndrome). So what is the difference between syndrome and disease? A syndrome is a set of specific symptoms whose underlying direct cause is not understood fully. However, something is called a disease when there is a good understanding of the causative process. For example, tuberculosis is a disease because there is a fair level of certainty that tuberculosis is caused by a bacteria called Mycobacterium tuberculosis. In the case of PCOS, the diagnosis of PCOS is done through an understanding of the symptoms of PCOS. There is still very limited clarity on what causes these symptoms! 

Poor lifestyle, obesity, stress, and hormonal imbalance are causes of PCOS. PCOS is actually very common, up to 15% of women of reproductive age have PCOS. 

Having a gap greater than 35 days between periods or experiencing less than 9 periods in a year could be a sign of PCOS or an underlying issue. Some others may get regular periods but may be suffering from the symptoms of PCOS, while others may not have these symptoms but may have irregular periods.  Finally, stress levels, lack of sleep and a poor diet seem to also have a role to play in the onset of PCOS.

Excess weight and fat deposits can also be another reason behind missed/skipped periods or having PCOS. There's a higher risk for you to develop PCOS if in case it runs in your family. For example - if your mother or sister has/had it, then chances are you might also develop it.

It is crucial to identify PCOS early on in order to manage the disease - so if you think you are having any PCOS symptoms, or have been suffering from irregular periods, don’t hesitate to consult a doctor5! Pinky Promise also has a robust PCOS symptom checker on its mobile app!

Sources : 

1-(https://my.clevelandclinic.org/health/diseases/8316-polycystic-ovary-syndrome-pcos)

2-(https://www.mayoclinic.org/diseases-conditions/pcos/symptoms-causes/syc-20353439) 

3-(https://www.hopkinsmedicine.org/health/conditions-and-diseases/polycystic-ovary-syndrome-pcos)

4-(https://www.pacehospital.com/pcod-polycystic-ovary-disease-cause-symptoms-and-treatment)