Chennai Super Kings (CSK):
Do we even need to answer this one?
I think everyone knows M.S Dhoni the legendary captain who has been with the Super Kings since 2008 will be their captain yet again this season. Dhoni has led CSK to 4 IPL titles (2010, 2011, 2018 and 2021).

Mumbai Indians (MI):
Rohit Sharma, another Indian captain who has led Mumbai Indians to record 5 IPL titles. Rohitwill captain MI for the 2022 season. Rohit is the highest run getter of all time for the Mumbai franchise, having scored 4441 runs from 2011 to 2021, with one century and 32 half centuries. 

Delhi Capitals (DC):
Rishab Pant, the young wicket keeper was promoted to Captain from Vice captain after the former captain Shreyas Iyer was ruled out with a shoulder injury. It is believed that he will keep his position as Captain for the upcoming season as well

Rajasthan Royals (RR):
The first captain to score a century on Captaincy debut Sanju Samson is believed to captain Royals for the upcoming season despite the teams poor finish (7th) last time around. He managed to score a career best of 484 runs in the season but that wasn't enough for the Royals to secure a better position.

Sunrisers Hyderabad (SRH): 
With the sunrisers not retaining David Warner, the captain that led them to their only IPL title in 2016; Kane Williamson is expected to captain the side in the upcoming season. Kane also captained the side in 2018 and 2019 in the absence of David Warner. 

Lucknow Supergiants (LSG):
Lucknow Super Giants is one of the two new teams that are joining IPL and they will be led by India's star batter KL Rahul. LSG drafted three players - Rahul, Australian all-rounder Marcus Stoinis and young Indian leg-spinner Ravi Bishnoi with KL as their skipper before the mega auction.

Ahmedabad Titans (AT):
Ahmedabad Titans is the second new team after Lucknow Supergiants to join the IPL.
Hardik Pandya will make his captaincy debut with Ahmedabad in their debut season. 

Teams who are yet to announce their captains:
Royal Challengers Bangalore (RCB)
Kolkata Knightriders (KKR)
Punjab Kings (PBKS)