On Wednesday, two minor sisters from the Dalit community aged 15 and 17 were found hanging from a tree outside a village in Nighasan in UP’s Lakhimpur Kheri district. On Thursday, the UP police arrested six people believed to be involved in the crime, but the sheer brutality of the violence perpetrated on these minor girls brings back the horrors of the Hathras gangrape case that sparked outrage in the country. It also takes us back to 2014, when two teenage cousins were raped and murdered in Uttar Pradesh’s Badaun. Why are crimes against women increasing in UP? And why are law enforcers often accused of cover-ups? Let’s UnBreak this news! 
On Wednesday, India witnessed one of the most gruesome and shocking cases of violence against minors. Two minor sisters were found hanging from a tree in UP’s Lakhimpur Kheri district. The girls, aged about 17 and 15 years, belonged to the Dalit community. The family members of the victims have alleged that they were abducted and raped. A local villager spotted the bodies of the sisters hanging from the tree in a sugarcane field and raised the alarm. 
According to the UP police, the main accused in the case, Chotu, introduced the minor girls to three other men – Junaid, Suhail and Rehman. They kidnapped both the girls, took them to a sugarcane field and raped them. The police said that the girls wanted to get married to the boys, but then the boys did not consent and decided to kill them instead. They used the dupatta of the minor girls to strangulate them. The men then called two more men – Karimuddin and Arif, who tried to erase evidence from the crime screen and hung the dead bodies of the girls on the tree. 
The UP police is accused of dealing with the case insensitively. The SP of Lakhimpur Kheri, Sanjiv Suman, said in a press conference: “Yesterday, they were lured and taken to the field, where they were forced into physical intimacy against their will.
Video link: https://youtu.be/hV1r6niduh4
Read more: https://theprobe.in/up-rape-horror-where-are-the-law-enforcers-unbreak-the-news-with-prema-sridevi-ep90/