Mallakhamb is a form of ancient martial arts intended as a training aid for wrestlers and ancient warriors.

‘Malla’ literally means wrestling and ‘khamb’ translates to pole. Together, mallakhamb means wrestling on a pole. Wrestlers and warriors used to use the pole as a training apparatus to perfect martial arts moves which they could later use on opponents in the ring or the battlefield.

History of Mallakhamb.

Sometimes referred to as the mother of all ancient Indian sports, mallakhamb’s exact origins are almost impossible to trace.

References of some form of mallakhamb can be found in ancient Indian epics like the Ramayana, ancient Chandraketugarh pottery dating back to the second to first century BCE and also accounts of Buddhist Chinese pilgrims to India.

The earliest direct literary mention of mallakhamb appears in an early 12th-century text called Manasollasa, penned by Chalukya king  Someshvara III, who ruled in present-day South India at the time.

From the late 1600s to early 1800s, the art-form remained somewhat dormant until Balambhatta Dada Deodhar, the fitness and sports instructor of legendary Maratha king Peshwa Bajirao II revived the art-form as a training method for the Peshwa’s army.

The training methodology which honed balance, dexterity and discipline particularly suited Maratha warriors, who were known to be the pioneers of guerrilla warfare.

In fact, mallakhamb and the other Indian sports at Berlin 1936 were demonstrated.
Over the years, three types of mallakhamb variations have gained popularity in competitions. They are:
Pole Mallakhamb, 
Hanging Mallakhamb and
 Rope Mallakhamb.**

** Sourced from site of International Olympics Commiy


Pole mallakhamb is essentially the traditional form of mallakhamb. Competitors perform on a wooden pole which is 2.6m in height and has a circumference of 55cm at the base. The pole gradually tapers to a circumference of 35cm at the top.

Hanging mallakhamb, meanwhile, uses a shorter pole suspended with hooks or chains as the prop. The bottom of the pole in hanging mallakhamb doesn’t touch the ground.

Rope mallakhamb is performed on a suspended rope which is 5.5m long and 2cm in diameter.