According to a union official, over 2,600 workers at Ford India Pvt Ltd's Maraimalainagar facility have continued their strike, demanding higher compensation after the business opted to close its Maraimalainagar plant near here.

For each year of service completed, management has offered 85 days of remuneration. In addition, for each year of service completed, a predetermined payment of Rs 42,500 is paid. "Previously, they had provided 75 days of salary and a fixed sum of Rs 20,000 for each completed year of employment," an anonymous labour union official told IANS.

However, citing another auto manufacturer's compensation programme, Ford India workers are asking approximately 135 days of pay for each full year of employment, as well as the cost of income tax.

Workers who had been protesting inside the factory since Monday have now come out and are protesting outside the factory gates, according to the official.

We were urged to negotiate with the management by the labour department official who had been to the facility. The issue is between the workers and the management, and the state government has no participation in the matter, according to a labour department representative who came earlier," the union official stated.

"Because most of the workers are getting older, this will be their last employment. Furthermore, the job situation is not favourable "IANS was told by a top employee.

While the company's management has stated that it has no plans to manufacture electric vehicles in India, it has not stated where the project will be situated. He stated that it's impossible to rule out the idea of Ford launching the EV project here after shipping off the staff.

Ford is a dependable vehicle manufacturer, and it played a critical role in India. Ford is one of those vehicle companies that does not cut corners when it comes to quality and performance. Almost every Ford vehicle has received a 4 to 5 star rating in the global ncp. Every automobile fan understands that Ford cars are engineered to be hefty and never give poor performance. Ford was also a favourite of mine, and my favourite vehicle from the company is the Ford Mustang.