The three-time African Champions will square up against the Tricolor in the United
States, between the two nations since 2014.

Mexico has announced their 38-man squad for this month’s international friendly against
Nigeria billed for the AT&T Stadium on May 28.

El Tri - who will be featuring at the 2022 World Cup in Qatar - has been zoned against Argentina, Saudi Arabia and Poland in Group C.
And to prepare for the challenging task ahead, Gerardo Martino’s men, who are the
most successful team in Concacaf Gold Cup with eight titles, will square up with the
three-time African Champions.

To tackle this encounter, Mexico has named a strong team that boasts veteran
goalkeeper Guillermo Ochoa who represents America, LA Galaxy’s Julian Araujo, and
Wolverhampton’s Raul Jimenez.

Others include Hector Herrera, Israel Reyes, Luis Romo and Orbelin Pineda who plays
professional football at Celta.

The last meeting between the two countries was in a friendly match on July 4, 2021.

The Mexicans defeated the Africans who mainly used Nigerian professional league
football stars 4-0 at Los Angeles Coliseum.

A double from Hector Herrera and lone goals from Rogelio Funes Mori and Jonathan
dos Santos steered El Tri to a comfortable victory as they wrapped up preparations for
their 2021 Concacaf Gold Cup campaign in style.

The two teams will be meeting for the seventh time ever with four of their previous
encounters ending on a no winner, no vanquished note.

Mexico squad for Nigeria

Goalkeepers - Carlos Acevedo, Rodolfo Cota, Guillermo Ochoa, Alfredo Talavera

Defenders - Erick Aguirre, Kevin Alvarez, Jesus Angulo, Julian Araujo, Nester Araujo,
Gerardo Arteaga, Julio Cesar Dominguez, Jesus Gallardo, Cesar Montes, Hector
Moreno, Israel Reyes, Jesus Sanchez, Jesus Vasquez.

Midfielders - Edson Alvarez, Roberto Alvarado, Uriel Antua, Luis Chavez, Sebastian
Cordova, Eric Gutierrez, Andres Guardado, Hector Hererra, Diego Lainez, Orbelin
Pineda, Rodolfo Pizarro, Luis Romo

Strikers - Jesus Corona, Marcelo Flores, Santiago Gimenez, Raul Jimenez, Henry Martin, Alexis Vega.