Donald trump has a new target for political attacks and scapegoating: transgender people.

Trump spoke for over 90 minutes at the Ford Wyoming Center in Casper on Saturday. It was ostensibly a speech in support of HARRIET HAGEMAN, his hand-picked candidate to take out Rep. LIZ CHENEY (R-Wyo.) in what Trump described here as “the most important election” of 2022 — and one that comes after a string of embarrassing primary defeats for Trump’s picks in Nebraska, Idaho, Georgia and North Carolina.

Trump meandered into issues far afield from the Wyoming race. In fact, if you haven’t tuned in lately, little has changed at a Trump rally. The former president appears to have put put on some weight, but he still looks younger than his 75 years, and the familiar mix of exaggerations, lies, sometimes hilarious mockery, dark conspiracies, personal grievances, perplexing asides, stream of consciousness riffs — all delivered in his uniform of a blue suit and long red tie — remains unchanged.

How much the event benefited Hageman was unclear. The parking lot was filled with license plates from Idaho, South Dakota, Montana, Colorado and Utah. On the security lines and in the hall, fans costumed in red ties, bedazzled MAGA dresses and at least one Trump-inspired catsuit traded notes on how many Trump rallies they’ve attended across the country.

As his recent losses make clear, Trump seems to understand now that people come to see him, and may ignore whatever candidate he’s hawking that day. “What’s more fun than a Trump rally?” he asked. The crowd cheered.

After an hour of Trump delivering many familiar hits — on Russia, impeachment, Jan. 6, the 2020 election, how he told NATO members he would not defend them if they didn’t “pay,” trade with China, CHUCK TODD’S alleged lack of sleep, the relative merits of the journalists CHRIS WALLACE and his father MIKE, his conversations with the Taliban, the Durham investigation, and how, “sadly,” White House physician-turned-congressman RONNY JACKSON knows Trump’s body better than MELANIA does — Trump turned his attention to a newer obsession.

“No teacher should ever be allowed to teach transgender to our children without parental consent,” he said, just as some of the MAGA faithful started to trickle out. “Can you imagine?”

https://www.politico.com/newsletters/playbook/2022/05/29/trumps-new-obsession-00035857