People who are unable to cope with workplace stress are at an increased risk of burnout. People who are burned out may feel fatigued, hollow, and unable to cope with life's obligations.
Burnout is often accompanied by a slew of mental and physical health issues. Burnout can make it difficult for a person to operate successfully in their daily life if it is not handled. It is a reaction to long-term or repeated job stress that has three basic dimensions: weariness, cynicism (lack of affiliation with the job), and emotions of diminished professional skill. Simply put, you're showing indications of burnout if you're weary, starting to dislike your job, and feeling less capable at work.

Here are a some of the most prevalent burnout symptoms:
Distancing yourself from work-related activities
1.Physical manifestations
2.Emotional exhaustion is a term used to describe the state of being emotionally exhausted.
3.Reduced performance

If you're experiencing burnout and can't seem to shake it, or if you think you could be suffering from a mental health problem like depression, seek professional help.
If they are invested in building a healthier work environment, approaching the human resource department or talking to a supervisor about the difficulties could be beneficial.
To put a stop to burnout, a change in position or a new work may be required in some circumstances.

It can also be beneficial to develop clear stress management practises. Self-care practises such as eating a nutritious diet, exercising regularly, and sleeping well can help mitigate some of the negative impacts of a high-stress work. A vacation may provide some temporary relaxation, but a week away from work will not be enough to help you overcome burnout. Breaks from work on a regular basis, as well as daily rejuvenation activities, might help you avoid burnout.
In summary everybody needs break, a moment to just with yourself. Being mindful will be not just beneficial to you but everybody around you. 
Take a breathe and do epic things