The history of “resilience” can be traced back to the Latin verb salire, meaning to rebound or leap. 

In physics, “resilience” is understood as a material’s ability to absorb the energy from a blow, while sustaining the ability to find the patch back to its original self. In a society, it means the ability to adjust to rising pressures, bounce back from a crisis, and adapt to catastrophic changes.

“A prerequisite to resilience is a public square where people with different cultures, demographics, values, and belief systems can organize and take collective action to face common challenges,” according to the ‘Coming Together Or Coming Apart’ report on freedoms of media and religion by Fund For Peace.

The report uses seven pillars to identify how Eastern South America, the Indian subcontinent, the Horn of Africa, and countries globally can build resilience through media and faith-based initiatives: civic space, inclusion, social cohesion, state capacity, and individual capabilities, environment, and economy.

Civil Space: For citizens and civic organizations to hold leaders and each other accountable, it is necessary that information is accessible and reliable, and that rights and liberties are preserved.

Inclusion: People who are at the intersections of marginalized identities – based on race, caste, gender, disability status, religion, and so on – may be underrepresented and face barriers to risk management.

Social Cohesion: Interpersonal solidarity amongst groups strengthens the armor against conflict, shocks, and vulnerabilities.

State Capacity: Reflects how intent by political leaders translates into outcomes in the form of rules, policies, and control over citizens.

Individual Capabilities: Measures an individual’s access to necessities like shelter, food, education, and health.

Environment: The health and viability of local ecosystems, biodiversity, and climate risks.

Economy: Successful economies are characterized by stability against crises like recession, and the ability to recuperate from crises like extreme weather events.