Introduction : The emergence of communist China continues....

This inconvenient fact is something that the Chinese government does not like to remember, and thus plays down their foreign origins, to try and show to its own people and the world that they were Chinese. The modern PRC is actually the largest Han empire there ever has been.

Other non-Han dynasties had also ruled large areas of western and northern China at various times, right down to central China, which is something Chinese negotiators do not generally like to be known in any discussions regarding the ‘issue’ of Tibet. Even Tibet itself had invaded the Han China mainland and controlled a large area in western China, and briefly captured its capital city of Chang’an (Xian) in 7h3 CE. Just to give the reader an idea, the non-Han dynasties that ruled parts of northern and north-western China, other than those of the Mongol and Manchu referred to above, have been:

Tatar (aka Tartar/Mongol) Dynasty

§ Liao (Khitan) Dynasty, 907-1125 CE Tibeto-Mongol Dynasty

§ Hsi-Hsia (Tangut) State, 990-1227 CE Tatar (aka Tartar/Mongol) Dynasties

§ Northern Liao (Khitan) Dynasty, 1122-1123 CE

§ Western Liao (Qara-Khitaï) Dynasty, 1125-1218 CE

At eight minutes and eight seconds past 8.00 PM on 8th August 2008 (8/8/2008), when the Beijing Olympic Games were inaugurated, the PRC made its grand announcement to the world, that it had become once again one of the world’s greatest countries. The PRC had been preparing for this moment for almost a decade, but Han China as a ‘nation’ had been striving for this moment for almost 150 years, ever since 1842 when the British forced China at gunpoint to sign the Treaty of Nanjing. The Han Chinese have never forgotten that event and refer to the years that followed, right up to the establishment of the PRC in October 1949, as ‘The Century of Humiliation’. The first Chinese to walk in space, in September 2008, only the third country in the world to have been able to manage this technological feat, was also about Han China announcing its resumed greatness to the world.

To be continued.....