Vice President Kamala Harris said Monday that 10 million households have signed up for the Affordable Connectivity Program, a program that provides low-income Americans with a subsidy to help pay for broadband service. The subsidy was made possible through the $1.2 trillion bipartisan infrastructure bill Congress passed last year. 

In remarks at the White House, Harris noted it was an important milestone as President Joe Biden and his administration work toward closing the digital divide and ensuring every American has access to high-speed affordable broadband service. Biden put Harris in charge of his initiative to close the digital divide last March, sending a signal that he viewed getting Americans access to affordable high-speed internet as a top priority.  

"In the 21st century, high-speed internet isn't a luxury, it's a necessity," Harris said. "Our world has moved online, and that is why from day one, the president and I have fought to make it easier for everyone to access and afford high-speed Internet."

The Infrastructure Investment and Jobs Act carved out $65 billion to connect Americans to broadband. Roughly $42 billion of those funds will be used to build new infrastructure in places that are currently unserved or underserved by broadband. But $14.2 billion has been dedicated to making broadband more affordable through the Affordable Connectivity Program, which subsidizes the cost of broadband. The program, which is administered by the Federal Communications Commission, provides qualifying households a $30 per month discount on their monthly broadband bill. Households on tribal lands can get a $75 per month subsidy. Enrollees can also access a one-time $100 stipend to purchase a computer or tablet to access the internet. 

The FCC launched the program at the beginning of this year. It's replacing a previous subsidy program called the Emergency Broadband Benefit program, which was established during the COVID-19 pandemic by Congress to help cover the cost of broadband for low-income households and households that experienced a loss of income due to the pandemic.