All matches in Group 3 and Group 4 of League A in the Nations league were drawn in a fascinating way. Big teams like Germany, Belgium, Italy, England, Holland were part of this very rare occurrence in the football world. 


Hungary 1- Germany 1

In a match played at Puskas Arena Park, Budapest, Hungary, both goals came in just 10 minutes. Midfielder Zsolt Nagy of Hungary scored the first goal in the 6th minute. Germany replied immediately through Jonas Hoffman (interestingly both wore the same number jersey -18). Both teams played 3-4-2-1 formation too. All the good players lined up for Germany - Werner, Kai Havertz, Goretzka, Kimmich, Musiala and Muller, Brandt, Gundogen played as substitutes. Still, just 1 shot was on target from the Germans. 


Germany will play against Italy and Hungary against England in their next matches on 15th June. 



England vs Italy (0-0) 

At Molineux Stadium, Wolverhampton, Italy were the first to come close with a one on one with goalkeeper chance, but Frattesi fired it wide off the target. Later Mount hit the crossbar from close range. Sterling unbelievably missed an open goal close range tap in opportunity, when James found him with a cross from right wing. 


Currently, Italy are at top of Group 3 with 5 points, followed by Hungary (3 points) and Germany (3) points. 



Holland 2- Poland 2

Poland took a 2 goal lead in the match, thanks to goals by Matty Cash (18') and Zielinski(49'). Holland levelled quickly in the second half. Klassen (51') and Dumfries(54') scored for the Orange team. It was the second goal by Dumfries in the league. But, they failed to score the winner. 



Belgium 1- Wales 1

Wales held Belgium with a late goal by Nottingham Forest striker Brennan Johnson(86'), who came in as a substitute for Bale in the 73rd minute. This was the 21 year old striker's first goal for his country. Belgium were leading for a goal by Tielemans(50'). It was an accurate low strike which beat Hennessy. 


Holland are at the top of the table with 2 wins and a draw and Belgium second with 4 points.