Napoli and Liverpool will be locking horns against each other in the Group A match of UEFA Champions League 2022-23 at the Stadio Diego Armando Maradona. These two sides are playing against each other in the Champions League for the 3rd time in the last 5 seasons.
Napoli have won two of their last three meetings against Liverpool in the UEFA Champions League. Ajax, Liverpool, Napoli, and Rangers are the four teams in Group A which will be contesting for the UCL title this year. 
Napoli have been dominant over England clubs at home in the UEFA Champions League off late. They have managed to win 5 of their last 6 games against English Premier League clubs at home in the UCL. 
Napoli vs Liverpool Match Details
Match: Napoli vs Liverpool
Date and Time: 08th September, 08:00 pm UK (07/09), 08:00 pm Loca (07/09)l, 12:30  Am IST
Venue: Stadio Diego Armando Maradona
Napoli vs Liverpool Probable Playing XI
Napoli: Alex Meret, Giovanni di Lorenzo, Amir Rrahmani, Min-Jae Kim, Mario Rui, Andre Zambo Anguissa, Stanislav Lobotka, Matteo Politano, Piotr Zielinski, Khvicha Kvaratskhelia, Victor Osimhen
Liverpool: Alisson, Trent Alexander-Arnold, Joe Gomez, Virgil Van Dijk, Andrew Robertson, Grant Elliot, Fabinho, Arthur Melo, Mohamed Salah, Darwin Nunez, Luis Diaz 
Napoli vs Liverpool Probable Winners
Napoli have been in an excellent run of form in the Serie A this season and they have managed to capture the second spot in the Serie A points table till date. Liverpool, on the other hand, have been tormented with injuries and the results haven’t gone in their favor in the Premier League too. 
This could be a closely fought affair and it might end in a draw.
Prediction: Napoli 1-1 Liverpool
Napoli vs Liverpool Live Stream
Napoli vs Liverpool will be live-streamed on SonyLIV. Indian fans can also stream the match live on Jio TV. In Italy, The match will be televised on Mediaset. Prime Video and SKY Italia subscribers will be able to watch the match online via the website or app. In the UK, BT Sport will broadcast and live stream the games.