Elijah Winnington has powered to his first global gold while the all-conquering 4x100m women's relay team won again, to give Australia the perfect flying start to the world swimming championships.

Winnington earned redemption after his Olympic disappointment, speeding to an emphatic victory in the 400m freestyle, the first final of the entire, week-long program in Budapest, on Saturday.

Inspired by his lead, sprint freestylers Mollie O'Callaghan, Madi Wilson, Meg Harris and Shayna Jack maintained Australia's recent dominance in the event, winning the last race of the day with the fifth fastest time in history, 3 minutes 30.95 seconds.

A superb launch pad for the Dolphins also saw Kyle Chalmers deliver an anchor leg masterpiece in the men's 4x100m, enabling his teammates William Yang, Matthew Temple and Jack Cartwright to celebrate the most unlikely silver behind a dominant US quartet.

The 22-year-old Gold Coast freestyler Winnington kicked it all off after the opening ceremony, swimming the race of his life and even flirting with the world record for much of his 400m final.

He eventually settled for a new, lifetime best of 3:41.22 as he demolished the field at the Duna Arena in the Hungarian capital by more than one-and-a-half seconds and became the fifth fastest, ever, at the distance.

Ian Thorpe is the only Australian to have gone quicker than his mark, which was the fastest in the world this year.

"It's incredible. I was really relaxed. I'm just trying to enjoy this experience and that definitely helps," the ecstatic Winnington said.

"In the last call room, I've heard the noise, the MC's voice and it was a total boost for me.

"I haven't had this feeling for a long time."

Last year, Winnington — who's suffered from nerves before — was left crestfallen after going into the Olympics with high hopes but finishing only seventh in the final.

This time, he set off operating inside German world record holder Paul Biedermann's mark of 3:40.07 set 13 years ago, admitting afterwards he hadn't realised that.

Meanwhile, 2016 Olympic champ Mack Horton just missed out on making the final from the morning prelims but Winnington took it to top-ranked German, Lukas Martens (3:42.85), from the start.