Speaking specifically about Bipolar Disorder in India, here are the stats –  0.5 per 1000 to 21 per 1000 annually get diagnosed with bipolar disorders. The typical age range is between 20 to 30 years of age, also, women have more depressive episodes and men have more manic episodes over a lifetime.

What are the different types of Bipolar Disorder?
Bipolar Disorder type 1-
This involves one or more manic episodes which may or may not be followed by a depressive episode.

Bipolar Disorder type 2-
This involves one or more major depressive episodes followed by at least one hypomanic episode. Hypomania is defined by a milder form of mania. Although it is less debilitating than Bipolar disorder Type I, it can cause significant distress at work or school and with relationships.

Bipolar Disorder type 3-
This is characterized by alternating mild depression and hypomanic episodes. The symptoms should be present for at least years to receive a diagnosis of cyclothymia.

Bipolar Disorder type 4-
This category is for individuals with symptoms of bipolar disorder that do not fit into the above mentioned types. They include rapid mood changes that do not last enough to qualify for bipolar disorder episodes and those with multiple episodes of hypomania without major depressive periods.

What Are the Symptoms of Bipolar Disorder?
In bipolar disorder, the dramatic episodes of high and low moods do not follow a set pattern.

Symptoms of mania ("the highs"):

1 Excessive happiness, hopefulnes
2 Sudden changes from being joyful to being irritable, angry, and hostile
3 Restlessness
4 Rapid speech and poor concentration
5 Increased energy and less need for sleep
6 Unusually high sex drive
7 Making grand and unrealistic plans
8 Showing poor judgment
9 Drug and alcohol abuse
10 Becoming more impulsive

During depressive periods ("the lows"), 
1 Sadness
2 Loss of energy
3 Feelings of hopelessness or worthlessness
4 Not enjoying things they once liked
5 Trouble concentrating
6 Forgetfulness
7 Talking slowly
8 Less of a sex drive
9 Inability to feel pleasure
10 Uncontrollable crying

What are the treatment options for Bipolar Disorder?
1 Medications
2 Psychotherapy
3 Lifestyle modifications