Late summer is all about BBQs, ice creams and parents counting down the days until schools open. Then along comes a wasp. There’s some screaming and flapping (mostly by the parents). Usually, no one gets stung and the wasp disappears. And yet we treat the arrival of this small insect at our picnic as if a tarantula has invited itself to tea.
It’s no surprise we act this way.
Every summer, newspapers shower us with headlines about the horrors of wasps. As a wasp expert, I am inundated with calls from the media at the end of August, asking me to explain why wasps ruin our late summer fun.
This summer is even worse. This time, newspapers are running headlines blaming the heatwaves for what they are calling huge plagues of wasps invading gardens and claiming Britain is under attack from aggressive “German wasps”.
These articles say this is a bumper year for UK wasps, that wasps are on a crazed stinging frenzy and the heatwaves are to blame.
The source of information that these news reports rely on are from pest-control companies who claim wasp nests are larger this year, and that they’re seeing a 20-30% rise in call-outs for “wasp interventions” than in previous years.
Let’s take a look at the science behind this.
What the research says
It’s too early for anyone - scientists, journalists or pest controllers - to have proper data on how wasps are doing this year. Records are still be being submitted to official data portals such as iNaturalist, Bees Wasps and Ants Recording Scheme (BWARS), the government-funded Pollination Monitoring Scheme (POMs) and the Big Wasp Survey.
In the absence of data, let’s use established research on wasp ecology to work out how heatwaves affect wasp populations. Warm, dry springs are certainly good for queen wasps who are in the first stages of nest founding. This year did see a warmer, drier spring than average, and so more wasp nests than normal will have survived that first life-cycle hurdle. However, the hot, dry summer we are having is likely to be having the opposite effect.
Read more: https://theconversation.com/plagues-of-wasps-a-scientist-explains-why-you-shouldnt-panic-about-rumours-of-rising-populations-189333