He was a pivotal player and scored many crucial goals during his two seasons, but he fell down the pecking order when City prioritised Dzeko and Balotelli over him. Adebayor left City having played 45 games and scored 18 goals.


3 Mario Balotelli
Manchester City signed the Italian striker from Inter Milan because Mancini knew how to employ the Italian maverick. Balotelli was tall and credited with speed and physical strength, which enabled him to beat defenders in any situation. His breakthrough season was 2011-12, when he scored 17 goals and won the Premier League.
He scored 30 goals in 80 games in two seasons at City and won the Golden Boy Award, but his off-field antics kept him out of the majority of the games. One of his stupid moves was missing a shot after doing a 360 on the ball.

2 Carlos Tevez
Only one Manchester loved him, and that was Manchester City, who landed the player from their rivals, Manchester United, at Etihad Stadium. Tevez became the most despised player among United fans after quickly making his name at City during the Abu Dhabi era at the Etihad. When he goaded Neville in the Manchester Derby, he became City fans' favourite player.
Furthermore, he was a tenacious striker with great pace and dribbling skills, similar to Lionel Messi, who had a knack for dribbling past 3-4 defenders like it was a stroll in the park. for him. He played for the club for three years and scored 73 goals in 143 appearances.

1 Sergio Aguero
Sergio Aguero was a cold-hearted goal-scorer who surpassed every City legend, and his famous goal is etched in many City fans, leading to the club's first-ever Premier League title in a century. His nine years at City were filled with five Premier League titles and the possibility of winning the Champions League, which he desperately wanted to win with Manchester City.
He did make the Champions League final, but City lost 1-0, and Aguero left the club with no Champions League silverware. Aside from that, he won every possible award and scored 260 goals in 390 games for Manchester City.