By Abhishek Kumar 
On August 28, India defeated Pakistan by five wickets in the 2022 Asia Cup. Against this backdrop, media channels aired a video of a group of young men destroying a TV set on the street, connecting it to this recent match. Media outlets claimed that the video featured Pakistani fans’ reaction after the team lost to India in the Asia Cup.
ABP News aired the visuals during its ‘Bharat Ki Baat’ program on August 29, 2022, at 7:30 PM. Describing it as a recent incident, the channel claimed that fans were smashing a television set over Pakistan’s loss against India in the 2022 Asia Cup. (Archived link)
Video Link 
Times Now Navbharat also made a similar claim while airing this video. (Archived link)
Video Link
India TV also ran the viral clip as the aftermath of India’s victory against Pakistan in the 2022 Asia Cup. (Archived link)
Tweet Link 
Several other users also amplified the video as recent. 
Fact-check
Due to the poor quality of the video, we suspected that it was likely very old. Alt News performed a keyword search on YouTube to find out whether the video was authentic. We came across the full clip uploaded on YouTube on June 6, 2019. This makes it evident that this incident could not have occurred after the recent match. 
In addition, the video features a sound byte from one of the Pakistani fans who smashed the TV. He states, “They didn’t play well against Afghanistan either. We kept losing to India till today, and now to a weak team like Bangladesh. We are deeply sorry for this.” In other words, it is evident that this is a video of Pakistani cricket fans breaking TVs in anger after their team’s loss to Bangladesh, and not India.
YouTube Link
Alt News also performed a search on Facebook to find more information on this video. This led us to a report by Pakistani news channel ARY News dated September 28, 2018, carrying the video. 
Read the full story here:- https://www.altnews.in/media-channels-broadcast-2018-video-of-pakistani-fans-breaking-tv-as-recent/?utm_source=website&