The gut microbiota is shaped by human genetics, according to new findings by Cornell scientists.

The billions of microbes that make up the gut microbiome have a huge influence on metabolism, illness, and general health. What is less apparent is how and to what degree the human DNA shapes the gut microbiota.

Using an innovative technique, Ilana Brito and her coauthors discovered several cases where a human host's genetic composition directly altered the gut microbiome's functional performance.

"Collective Effects of Human Genomic Variation on Microbiome Function" was published in Scientific Reports on March 9. The study brought together Brito's microbiome expertise with Andrew Clark, the Jacob Gould Schurman Professor of Population Genetics in the College of Arts and Sciences, and Martin Wells, the Charles A. Alexander Professor of Statistical Sciences in the Department of Information Science.

"When an illness or phenotype is caused by a single genetic mutation, finding the gene responsible is extremely simple," Brito added. However, a gene or gene set might interact to cause illness or other phenotypic manifestation, a considerably more complicated process. There are many sequential variants throughout the human genome, even between paired chromosomes of the same person.

SNP stands for single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP). Brito's team identified SNPs linked with microbiome features, diseases, and malignancies using a novel computational and modelling technique. They might reveal direct impacts of the human genome on gut microbiota functioning.

This is because the human genome variations are associated with one other and might have related roles, and the gut bacteria species are not independent of each other.
The current study was unique in that it used this data format. It looked at large collections of human genes and their effect on the functions of the microbiome rather than single genes, and it used a novel strategy to model the distribution of functions and species inside the human gut.

The study was funded by the National Institutes of Health.