Black youth are facing more mental health concerns than ever. As adults, it’s important to listen to them and direct them to seek help.

Being young can be hard enough as is — grades, hormones, and life choices can impact the mental health of any child.

The Adolescent Behaviors and Experiences SurveyTrusted Source shows that 44% of teens report “persistent feelings of sadness and hopelessness.”

Despite this, a 2013 reviewTrusted Source noted that Black children in the United States are not as likely to be diagnosed with mental health conditions.

Also, Black teens with mental health conditions are less likely to seek treatment, though they’re more likely to experience higher rates of depressive moods, according to a 2019 study.

The global COVID-19 pandemic has both helped and hindered this statistic.

While the state of Black youth and their mental health seem discouraging, there are ways you can help.

The Black youth mental health crisis
In 2019, the Congressional Black Caucus (CBC) created an emergency task force to help address unclear data involving suicide in Black youth.

According to the CBC, data shows that the current generation of Black teens and children have higher rates of suicide than previous generations.

And the 2021 Mental Health in American report states that this rate is increasing faster than any other ethnic group. However, historical data showed that Black youth died by suicide at low rates.

Though Black youth experience similar mental health challenges as their non-Black peers, the American Academy of Pediatrics (AAP) named racism as one of the leading causes of the mental health concerns that Black youth face.

According to a 2020 study, Black teens may experience up to five instances of discrimination per day on average.

Research from 2015Trusted Source shows that interactions like this can lead to higher rates of depression.

Despite these findings, a 2016 study found that Black youth are still half as likely as their white counterparts to seek help for their mental health.

Moreover, when Black youth seek mental health treatment, data shows that their mental health concerns are often misdiagnosed.

Sources - https://psychcentral.com/health/how-adults-can-help-black-youth-with-mental-health#The-Black-youth-mental-health-crisis