Prime Minister Mullah Mohammad Hassan Akhund called on Islamic countries to be the first to recognize the Afghan government.  

The prime minister made the remarks at a high-level meeting held on Wednesday at the ARG (Presidential Palace) in Kabul to assess the status of the Afghan economy. 

The meeting was attended by members of the Islamic Emirate cabinet and UN representatives and representatives of 20 foreign countries.  

PM Mullah Akhund also called on the international community to recognize the current Kabul administration and urged the US to release the Central Bank's assets.  

He called on the Islamic countries to not wait and let the US be the first to recognize Afghanistan, after which "you would also recognize it," said the prime minister. 

He said the lack of recognition is creating severe challenges in various ways.

"If the economic process is implemented, I believe Afghanistan would be pulled out of the current crisis," he said.  

Amir Khan Muttaqi, the acting minister of Foreign Affairs, said that Afghanistan already has an independent government.  

"It is obvious to them that Afghanistan has a government which is responsible, committed, and believes in acting in mutual interest," he said.

Talking at the meeting, the UN envoy in Afghanistan Deborah Lyons said the role of women and girls is vital for economic progress in the country.  

 "Indeed, economic progress, diversity, inclusion, human rights, and equality amongst all citizens are closely connected. As many countries have learned in these last many decades, economic growth stems from innovation and engagement of all citizens," she said. "This requires education for all, creativity, building technical capacity and using the diversity and talents of the many ethnic groups throughout an entire population." 

"Women and girls in Afghanistan represent half of the population and, as other countries around the world have learned, are critical for economic prosperity," Lyons added. 

This comes as the Afghan government has yet to be recognized by any foreign countries.  

The Islamic Emirate has made the upholding of human rights, women's rights, and the formation of an inclusive government the preconditions for recognizing the current Afghan government.