I liked school. We’d walk from home and back for lunch. Classrooms were spartan – just benches, desks, blackboard. I don’t remember having a morning assembly or games or extra-curricular activities I see kids indulging in now. Every subject had a different teacher and they’d come in, get down to the business of teaching, pull us up if we slacked and walk out after assigning homework… basic, but very effective! In the summers, the ‘home schooling’ continued, and my tutor would trudge in every now and then to check on my brother and I.

I was good at all subjects, but was passionate about math. In high school, I relished solving complex problems and was quite the teacher’s darling. When the time came to select career-targeted subjects in Intermediate (today’s class eleven), I sensed my father’s desire of having a doctor in the family, with one older brother an engineer and another a professor. He didn’t have to put it in words, there was a tacit directive and I quietly gave up mathematics and went in for biology.

My entire orientation changed from that moment. I started believing, thinking and living out the fact that I was a doctor. Anybody ill at home had me at their bedside, checking fever, suggesting treatment and tending to them. This, when I was yet to get to medical school! Such was my personification of my future profession.
I was still a year young for the medical entrance exam, so joined Loyola College in Vijayawada as stopgap. I joined mid-term, but got first rank! I sat for the AIIMS exam in August as it happened to be the first one after my sixteenth birthday and all others finished just before, in the first week of July.
When I look back, I see the pattern – mistakenly getting into a higher class, choosing my own name, changing direction to medicine, sitting for the AIIMS exam only because of the timing… fate was conspiring and egging me in a certain direction, and I just marched on.

As told to Priya Sarkar (wife) 

(next… the world of All India Institute of Medical Sciences)