Chinese government authorities have ordered schools in the country to appoint “political commissars” who will teach pupils “Xi Jinping Thought on Socialism” which were made part of a new education curriculum last November. 

This curriculum—that will cover basic, vocational and higher education—will be integrated with various subjects, according to the National Textbook Committee of the country. 

Children will learn President Xi Jinping’s definition of “rule of law” in middle and secondary school—covering 200 million kids – on a mandatory basis. It’s not compulsory at the nursery level, but infants too are encouraged to cultivate love for the country, the Communist Party of China, and socialism, according to Global Times, a state-run newspaper. In the next levels, students will be trained to form “political judgements and opinion” and then learn “how to think theoretically”.  
 
According to the British daily, The Times, Xi's agenda is to increase indoctrination of children and pass the “red genes” to next generations. The aim is to protect the country’s Communist leadership under the guidance of Xi.

The political commissars are formally going to be known as “assistant principal of rule of law” who will be recommended or appointed by the local judiciary or other local bureaucracy. The commissars, who will carry out classes for four hours in a year, will be hired on a contractual basis. 

In 2018, “Xi Jinping Thought” was incorporated into the country’s constitution. Later it was introduced across some universities and political youth wings as “extra-curricular” activities. One of the key principles—14 main principles to emphasise Communist ideals-- is to call for “complete and deep reform” and “new developing ideas” in the new generation of children. 

READ MORE:

 https://www.wionews.com/world/now-chinese-students-to-be-taught-xi-jinpings-thoughts-454530

https://www.thetimes.co.uk/article/chinas-schools-must-teach-thoughts-of-chairman-xi-snvlvmrj5

https://www.globaltimes.cn/page/202108/1232364.shtml