Rajvi Shah and Nikhil Jain made a history by creating multiple world records for compiling an unique anthology named "अस्तित्व" (Existence) on the theme 'Acrostic with Formation of Letters (3-7)' and it deals about the things which are actually present in nature, whose existence gives the introduction of life and their name enters in the INKZOID and Glorious Book Of Records.
 
About Rajvi Shah

Rajvi Shah is a girl hailing from Gujarat.She's been into writing from more than 3 years. She's doing compiling, manuscripting, formatting, proofreading, content writing etc., She's author, founder, publisher, poetess, podcaster etc., She's been part of few Anthologies as Co-author in which the books are in records too and Compiled few Anthologies till now, many more upcoming up. 

Rajvi Shah is the founder of Unité Publication whose sole purpose is giving opportunities to new talents. 

You can connect with her on 
Instagram: unwanted_stories and
Email: unwantedstories@gmail.com.

About Nikhil Jain

Nikhil Jain is a businessman by profession, founder of Unité Publication, Love.vibes143 and a writer by hobby, belongs to Dhule, Maharashtra. He has earned BBM and MBA degrees. He loves to share his knowledge with others. He likes to travel, to innovate, and to hone their talents through creativity.

To join them, you can contact them via Instagram:-@love.vibes143
Email:-love.vibes143@outlook.com
Phone No. :- 8208574289
 
 About The Book "अस्तित्व" (Existence)

"अस्तित्व" (Existence) compiled by Nikhil Jain & Rajvi Shah is a multiple world record book on the theme 'Acrostic with Formation of Letters (3-7)' and it deals about the things which are actually present in nature, whose existence gives the introduction of life. There are innumerable wonders in the universe, whose origin is a mystery, but their existence is a truth, by collecting together the various particles of our nature made up of many such elements, we have written them on some pages, understanding about them in a small way. A trivial attempt has been made in the form of lettered poems in the form of "Existence", whose sole purpose is to make some words related to the universe appear.