Jawaharlal Nehru was the President of the Indian National Congress at that time. It was later renamed to Swaraj Bhavan in memory of the Poorna Swaraj resolution passed by Indian National Congress and remained the HeadQuarters of Indian National Congress till 1946. Not a single claim has been laid to this property, valued in crores, by any of his descendants. 

His new house was also called Anand Bhavan. This new property was bought and house constructed purely with the hard earned savings of Motital Nehru. His son's daughter, Indira Priyadarshini, dedicated this house in 1970 to the nation by transferring the ownership to the country. Later this house was converted to a museum and library and continues to be protected. Many rare records related to the history of Congress remain here to date. 

You might be wondering as to why this long history is being told now. While many Palaces, Palatial houses built during the British era have been later sold by the owners or their descendants for large amounts or even converted to star hotels minting money for the owers, the Nehru family understood the historical significance of their home and dedicated it to the nation without even expecting a single rupee in return.

And that is the intention of telling this history. To remind those who claim that Sonia Gandhi, Rahul Gandhi and their close circle tried to usurp the money and property of Congress Party, to remind those,who poke fun of and throw allegations at Sonia Gandhi, Rahul Gandhi and their close circle, of this history.

It is because of this history that every common Congress worker knows that Sonia Gandhi and Rahul Gandhi are not the greedy thieving people as portrayed by some fringe elements. They know the emotional connection of the family with the National Herald which was founded by Jawaharlal Nehru in 1938 . These common Congress workers know that they will never ever try to even make a single rupee through unethical means whether it be from Congress or elsewhere.