Peace isn't something like a state of being silent, peace is something that comes after succeeding in the most struggling moments of life, whether it is defeating violence or something to achieve your goal. After this the socio-economic peace gets flourished. Peace is something that is hidden within ourselves, even if we're in a state of apathy, there is peace and endurance present in us. Violence results only in destruction and the loss of lives. The wars that have ended have not resulted in better but in turn ruined the fortune of the nations been through it.
As if a man grows older, he becomes mature enough to understand every bit of a lesson that he has gathered from his past, and this perhaps results him in ending up as a wiser person. Men are the nation builders, and this tactical supermacy results in nothing but a decrease in a level of humanity. So what we should grab from the similar lessons like this is not to indulge in activities that shatter the dignity of 'Peace'. Socio-economic, Political, Geo- political and Communal warfares that are wonted nowadays end up in destroying the sentiments of eternal peace. This isn't the we can maintain a perfect state of Peace and Unity in a state. The above picture (1st one) is an example of peace keeping awareness program organised by Kashmakash for today (21st September) as a memoir to celebrate and inculcate the idea of Int'l Day of Peace 2022.
مقتول سے ہمدردی بھی
یہ بتا کس سے مبحت کی جزا مانگے گا؟
سجدہ خالق کو بھی، ابلیس سے یارانہ بھی
حشر میں کس سے عقیدت کا صلہ مانگے گا؟
This are some magical words spoken by Dr.  Allama Iqbal inorder to highlight the unity among enemies. We as care takers of humanity shall implement all the efforts to maintain peace in our society and perhaps take a path that shall lead to eternal truth and peace,via finding the real meaning of life, and that further shall transform into prosperity and development.So lets take a pledge to maintain peace.
By Shayrab Fardan
Class X
Dolphin Int'l School