With the global scenario inevitably racing towards an aging population, the demand for healthcare facilities will dramatically increase and the world will be forced to come up with creative solutions. Little can be done to control the upsurge in the prevalence of cognitive impairment and dementia along with several comorbidities thereby creating an unparalleled burden on caregivers and the entire healthcare fraternity. Resources, time, and patience will always be ﬁnite. But the pandemic has already demonstrated ‘who’ the actual ‘super hero’ is going to be- undoubtedly, it is technology.

Caregiving in this decade (and onwards) is going to be heavily dependent on ‘age tech’. Caregivers for chronic and progressive conditions such as dementia are going to need it the most.

Dementia is a neurodegenerative condition that requires attention and care around the clock. People living with this condition tend to eventually lose their decision-making and judgment skills and their ability to communicate and connect and soon start living inside their own bubble.

An early diagnosis is imperative for making advances for a better prognosis. Impressive work has already been done for early detection. The University of Cambridge (led by Professor Kourtzi) and The Alan Turing Institute have developed a tool using AI to detect dementia very early largely by identifying structural changes in the brain (which begin to happen several years before the ﬁrst symptoms appear). This can be done using just one scan. Prof Kourtzi is also the Scientiﬁc Director of Early Detection of Neurodegenerative diseases (EDoN). The ambitious EDoN project combines digital data from wearables to predict who can be prone to developing dementia. Doctors would therefore be able to recommend necessary changes in lifestyle to delay the onset of dementia.


Assistive technologies to help elders stay independent for as long as possible have been the front runner. From smart security to pill dispensers & medication reminders, lighting systems, and so on, we would soon be ﬂooded with choices. For worried caregivers and long term care facilities, the availability of motion sensors has been exciting.

Read more- https://health.economictimes.indiatimes.com/amp/news/industry/can-technology-improve-dementia-care-/89763160