In the recently concluded match between Granada CF and Villarreal CF, Danjuma had a blast. He was the hat-trick hero of the match.

Danjuma scored 2 penalties and one beautiful crafted goal, to take his score to 8 goals for the season. The numbers are quite good for him, as last season he had notched 17 goals for Bournemouth.
He had a total pass completion of 69.2%, out of which he had completed 9 passes and 13 of them which were attempted. He also had 1 defense splitting pass to his name. 
We can see where Danjuma made his touches. He made his touches mostly in the attacking third of the opponent.
From the above dashboard, Danjuma ranks high in almost attacking aspects and in carries and touches in the danger zone. One aspect which he can work upon is in terms of his passing. Even though he may have notched up 3 assists, he can do even better, in terms of executing defense splitting passes. 


Many top clubs including Manchester United, Liverpool and other English clubs are after his signature. Manchester United are considered to be in the best position to sign Dutch forward. 


He would be the perfect signing as he also has substantial experience in England where he made 52 appearances across all competitions for the Cherries.


Manchester United have created lots of chances in front of goal, but haven’t managed to achieve a great conversion rate, with the exception of their match against Leeds, in which they scored 4 goals. 

Their lack of clinical finish to bury the game has haunted them in recent matches.


Even after boasting players like Marcus Rashford, Jadon Sancho, Edinson Cavani and the prodigal son Cristiano Ronaldo, they are toothless in front of goal. They look like the ideal attacking squad on paper.


The club could do well if they invest in Danjuma. With him boasting PL experience, he would hit the ground running, and if nurtured properly he could turn out to be a long term asset for the club.

Link to article :

 https://link.medium.com/9kxdrdxr7nb