Russia is losing its thousands of intelligent and highly skilled tech workers every day as Putin’s brutal invasion on Ukraine keeps battering its innocent civilians. Around 200,000 of these young professionals have escaped political oppression of Vladimir Putin, amid a sanction-hit economy, fearing arrest or recruitment as conscripts to fight the war.   

Many of these bright young citizens were never convinced of the autocrat’s phony justification of the war and his relentless fake propaganda on a “Nazified Ukraine” and alleged “genocide” in Ukraine’s eastern Donbas region. Unlike most senior Russians, bombarded with Putin’s propaganda via state-owned media outlets, including online platforms, the youngsters have access to multiple information gateways through virtual private networks (VPNs). When some of them came out on streets to protest an unjustified war, they were arrested, tortured and now fear long jail sentences under a new “state betrayal law”.   

As EU, US, UK and Canada have closed their airspace to Russian flights, these tech refugees are choosing ex-Soviet nations like Georgia, Armenia and also Turkey. Georgia, a country which had had a brush with Putin’s invasion in 2008, has received around 25,000 skilled tech workers who have escaped Putin’s latest experiment with invasion on ex-Soviet Ukraine. Many of these tech professionals, such as video games developers or cyber security experts, can work remotely.  And there are many others who can easily find work in any developed economy, despite their inadequate foreign language skills.   

This Russian brain drain can be utilised by the West, especially the NATO allies, to bleed Russia further, beyond the existent economic sanctions. Russia has the second highest pool of highly educated people among Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD) countries, most of them with a solid background in science, technology, engineering, and math (STEM) majors.

Providing asylum to these beleaguered young professionals or poaching the top Russian talents can help leverage a bigger brain drain and hit Putin hard and foment more disgruntlement against his autocratic regime in Russia.      

READ MORE: 

https://www.bbc.com/news/world-europe-60697763

https://www.thetimes.co.uk/article/russia-waives-army-call-ups-to-halt-it-brain-drain-7k3rfbwfk

https://www.atlanticcouncil.org/blogs/new-atlanticist/want-to-hurt-putin-back-a-brain-drain-from-russia/