1.Potatoes
As Potatoes are on the starchy side of the spectrum and are most famous for being transformed into unhealthy eats such as french fries and chips, they tend to be overlooked as a healthy meal option. “

But they also offer a moderate amount of fiber, especially when eaten with the skin on.
Potatoes actually provide several vitamins and minerals, including potassium and vitamin C.

2.Bread
Sure, bread is a carb—but contrary to popular belief, not all carbs are bad for us.

Some breads are an excellent source of complex carbs and fiber, as well as B vitamins, iron, and magnesium.
When eating bread, keep the toppings nutritious—sandwiches loaded with veggies, tuna salad with mashed avocado.

3.Fruit Juice
Fruit juices have earned a reputation as being more sugar-filled than nutrient-dense—however, so long as it’s 100 percent fruit juice, it can be part of a healthy eating plan.

Although, it should not be an entire fruit intake to be in juice form (it’s lower in fiber than whole fruit, and drinking it in excess can cause an uptick in calories), consuming an 8-fluid ounce.

4.Macadamia Nuts
Macadamia nuts are often in question because of their higher calorie and fat content (including some saturated fat) than most other nuts, leading many to think that they are a “bad” food. 

Nevertheless, macadamia nuts contain a good amount of anti-inflammatory monounsaturated fat. They’re also a source of trace minerals that are important for many functions including thyroid health and bone health including zinc, magnesium, calcium, chromium, and iron.

5.Egg Yolks
Egg yolks often get a bad rap due to their higher fat content and cholesterol. One yolk contains about 70 mg of cholesterol. While for someone with very high cholesterol they may not be a good option, for most of us

The finding is that most of the cholesterol in our blood is actually manufactured by our bodies as opposed to consumed through foods. Egg yolks contain nutrients like lutein that can help prevent macular degeneration, and also contain others like vitamins A, E, D and some brain-healthy fat too amongst other things.