By Medha Dutta Yadav

New Delhi: Chronicling 101 years of the Chittagong (present-day Bangladesh)-born artist Somnath Hore’s life, Delhi-based Kiran Nadar Museum of Arts (KNMA) has mounted an impressive exhibition of his works across different phases of his life. A huge chunk of the exhibition largely stems from his depiction of the Bengal famine of 1943 and the peasant movement, known as the Tebhaga movement of 1946. In fact, the title of the exhibition - Birth of a White Rose – draws from the artist’s iconic work of the same name, which received the Lalit Kala Akademi National Award in 1962. The seminal exhibition at the KNMA is on view till September 30 and presents an array of Hore’s artistic oeuvre - from prints and printing plates to paintings and bronze sculptures.

The term ‘lost in the pages of time’, perhaps holds true for Hore’s phenomenal oeuvre. While his compatriots – the likes of VS Gaitonde, SH Raza, FN Souza, MF Husain and more – have long shown bright in the artistic world, Hore has unfortunately been relegated to the wings. Hore’s artistic spirit and aesthetic idioms find similarities with Austrian artist Oskar Kokoschka, who like Hore was also a poet and teacher and like him is known for his intense expressionistic portraits. Another artist Hore found similarities with is German artist Käthe Kollwitz who is also known as a sculptor and printmaker of note.

“Hore internalised the crux of socialist values and transmuted them into a visual language—lucid, tangible and comprehensible to the masses. His works from various phases in diverse mediums were markers of the volatile times that the artist lived through,” says curator Roobina Karode, adding, “Chronicling societal dynamics by observing class conflicts and the violence around, they were contemporary to a transformative cultural juncture when literature, theatre, cinema and other creative expressions in Bengal were touching crescendo.”

Read the full story here:- https://www.newsdrum.in/culture/somnath-hore-chronicling-pain-55591.html