President Joe Biden announced on Feb. 2, 2022, that the U.S. is sending several thousand military personnel to assist NATO allies in Europe, as a massive Russian troop buildup threatens to violate Ukraine’s sovereignty.

An estimated 2,000 U.S. troops are heading from the U.S. to Poland and Romania, which both border Ukraine. The remainder of the troops in the deployment will come from those already in Germany.

This move comes shortly after the Biden administration announced it was placing 8,500 personnel on heightened alert in response to Russia’s military buildup of 100,000 troops along Ukraine’s borders.

The U.S. says that it will not deploy troops within Ukraine, which is not a NATO member. But what happens when the U.S. sends thousands of troops close to Ukraine, instead?

As national security experts, we believe there are a few important factors to consider, as the U.S. military move stands to further heighten tensions in Eastern Europe.

As national security experts, we believe there are a few important factors to consider, as the U.S. military move stands to further heighten tensions in Eastern Europe.

UK Ambassador James Kariuki and U.S. Ambassador Linda Thomas-Greenfield lean towards each other across a table during a U.N. Security Council meeting on Ukraine on Jan. 21, 2022.

Does Biden have the authority to do this?
The U.S. Constitution establishes the president as the Commander in Chief of the country’s armed forces. This role gives the president the ability to adjust overseas troop numbers, both in times of peace and crisis.

But the president’s use of this power has been controversial in the past.

Congress has tried to limit the deployment of troops in noncombat zones overseas. For example, the Senate held hearings in 1951 on whether the president could deploy more troops to NATO members during peacetime.

Read full story at The Conversation: https://theconversation.com/biden-sending-more-troops-to-eastern-europe-3-key-issues-behind-the-decision-176332

Imagery: https://media.gettyimages.com/photos/january-2022-bavaria-hohenfels-military-vehicles-of-the-us-army-stand-picture-id1238121221?s=2048x2048