Qatar’s hosting of the 2022 FIFA World Cup brings a host of benefits, such as drawing more international attention and consolidating the country’s efforts to emerge as a centre for business and investments, as well as for tourism, culture, and peace, according to Qatar Chamber chairman Sheikh Khalifa bin Jassim al-Thani.
He said 2022 will not only be an exceptional year but an unforgettable one for both Qatar and the entire region as it is the first World Cup to be held in an Arab country and in the Middle East.
“Long before the official launch of the tournament, Qatar was 100% ready to host the world’s largest sports event. Preparations have lasted for more than a decade,” Sheikh Khalifa stated in the latest edition of Al Moltaqa, the chamber’s economic magazine.
After Qatar won the bid to host the 2022 FIFA World Cup, the State “has prepared itself well for the world’s largest football show,” said Sheikh Khalifa, citing the building of a series of mega-infrastructure projects, such as world-class roads, bridges, and other infrastructure; the establishment of state-of-the-art sports stadiums and giant sports facilities.
Other massive projects include the expansion of the Hamad International Airport and the establishment of hotels and tourism-related facilities, as well as other developments in the field of maritime transport, subways, and electric buses, among others.
“We are firmly certain that hosting this mega event will have a positive effect on Qatar’s long-term growth prospects at various levels. The World Cup will not only generate an economic boom for Qatar but it will place the state on the international map and as a global centre for investments and business, especially in light of the attractive legislative, regulatory, and institutional environment, and advanced infrastructure.
“It constitutes a huge boost for Qatar’s national economy and will this further benefit several sectors, including hospitality, tourism, and infrastructure before and beyond the tournament,” Sheikh Khalifa explained.
He added: “Furthermore, the World Cup will enhance the country’s position on the world sports map as a destination for major sporting events. 