By Nisha Qureshi and Tanzila Shaikh 

According to a Crisil report, CEOs in Indian organisations get paid 130 times more than regular employees. 

The report further states that in private companies, CEOs get paid 137 times more. While sectors like FMCG and real estate are mostly being headed by families which can be the reason behind this parity, what about the more democratic sectors like advertising?

According to a senior advertising executive, working at one of the leading ad agencies in the country, advertising is a heavily underpaid industry. He said even people working at the VP level are underpaid.

“The salaries in the industry are wayward and nobody really knows how much the really big guns are paid.”

According to sources, the top guns are getting almost 100% more than what the middle management makes. The source added that, “The salary of an NCD is somewhere between Rs 2.2-2.5 crores with 18-25 years of work experience. Someone with lesser experience makes about 50-80 lakhs. This is a number the juniors can’t even dream of.”

Yousuf Rangoonwala, Founder and Head of Strategy at Kakkoii Strategy, Communications, Technology and Entertainment, said that it is not true for all the agencies but like all corporates, the top management does make far more than those below.

“The problem is not that they get more. In fact, they should as they are taking up a lot more in terms of responsibility, and risk mentally as well as physically. In advertising, my experience has been that big agencies don’t reveal to the clients the actual hours people are putting in. A junior-level person at times is managing more brands than they can sensibly in a day. They are contributing much more than they can or should be doing on paper. These guys are also never compensated for these hours,” Rangoonwala said.

Another mid-level advertising executive revealed that the salaries in the industry depend upon the kind of clients an agency takes upon. They revealed that it's not just salaries but scoring promotions is also difficult.

Read the full story here:- https://bestmediainfo.com/2022/07/why-ad-industry-s-bottom-of-the-pyramid-needs-an-immediate-salary-correction