by Jayanta Bhattacharya

The West Bengal government has initiated the process of acquiring land for mining a huge reserve of coal detected in the Birbhum district. The Deocha-Pachami-Dewanganj-Harinsinga coal block is being touted as India’s largest such project and the second in the world. It has great economic value for a state where large scale industrialisation is the need of the hour.

The government website describes Deocha-Pachami coal block as “India’s largest coal mine located in the south-western part of Birbhum Coalfield in West Bengal. Spread over approximately 10 sq km, in-place reserves of coal is estimated at 2,100 million tonnes with an investment potential of rupees 20,000 crore (US$ 3 billion)”.

There are apprehensions in certain quarters about the financial viability of the project considering the depth of the reserve and also the technology at hand to mine the thick seam. “There is a huge reserve, and the amount may finally even out the cost. The project could be viable in the long run,” said Partha Bhattacharyya, former Chairman of Coal India Limited (CIL).

“However, the machinery, the technology and the expertise to go through such hard crust is not readily available in India. We don’t have the experience in drilling such rocky overburden (the space from topsoil to the reserve),” he added.

Bhattacharyya was CIL Chairman from October 2006 to February 2011. CIL is a coal mining and refining corporation under the Ministry of Coal, Government of India, headquartered in Kolkata. It produces around 83 per cent of India’s overall coal production.

“CIL did not initiate any mining attempt. The project would require a suitable consultant and mine development operator – with expertise and equipment. Only then can a feasibility study be done,” said Bhattacharyya.

In 2016, the Centre invited applications for allocating the project. It was decided that the block would be divided among six states and the Satluj Jal Vidyut Nigam (SJVN). The latter is a public sector undertaking involved in hydroelectric power generation and transmission. 

Read the full story here:- https://theprobe.in/indias-largest-coal-block-will-displace-thousands-but-may-not-be-viable-after-all/