ith the passing of Queen Elizabeth II, Australia has a new king. The BBC has confirmed Charles will take on the regnal name of “King Charles III”.
Charles was made the Prince of Wales at age nine in 1958 - with his investiture held a decade later - making him the longest serving royal heir in the longest reign of a British monarch.
We are familiar with him as a senior royal, but what will it be like now he is king?
Who is Charles?
With the popularity of Netflix drama The Crown and Pablo Larrain’s Spencer, starring Kristen Stewart, we are currently awash with fictional (re)imaginings of Charles.
Of particular interest, however, is his marriage to Princess Diana. Despite now being married to Camilla, the Duchess of Cornwall, for almost 16 years, the pageantry of his wedding to Diana and the subsequent divorce still loom large in the public imagination.
Public perceptions of Prince Charles have been significantly shaped by his tumultuous, and ultimately tragic, marriage to Diana. AP/AAP
Romantic entanglements aside, Charles’s career as a senior royal has been plagued by scandals.
Two salient examples include his association with Jimmy Savile and, more recently, cash-for-honours allegations against his foundation.
He has also had a tumultuous relationship with the press, filing a successful court case against the Mail on Sunday in 2006 for publishing excerpts from his private journals. Charles was also one of several royals targeted by the News of the World phone hacking affair.
Like other senior royals, Charles is patron of numerous charities.
However, the issue apparently most dear to his heart is the environment. He has long advocated for environmental sustainability and even has his own organic brand and sustainably-built urban village.
The British monarch is intended to be a non-partisan, impartial head of state. As heir, however, Charles has been prolific in letters lobbying various government ministers. This makes Charles much more interventionist than his predecessors.
Read more: https://theconversation.com/australia-has-a-new-head-of-state-what-will-charles-be-like-as-king-176878