Rarely does a week go by without a new scientific study addressing the deteriorating condition of life on Earth. Globally, with more than 70 per cent of land and sea having already been significantly altered by humans, one million species are threatened with extinction. An alarming number of ecosystems are already exhibiting evidence of collapse, including mangrove forests, wet tropical forests and the Great Barrier Reef.

Such trends have been accelerating and intensifying since the 1970s and are projected to continue or worsen if countries around the world do not work together to halt and reverse the decline of nature. There is abundant evidence for the profound connection between biodiversity and human well-being. The loss of biodiversity and its detrimental effects on ecosystems is affecting the quality of human life as much as any other global stressor.

Yet biodiversity has always struggled for attention. Both the UN Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC) and the Convention on Biological Diversity (CBD) were established 30 years ago at the Rio Earth Summit. But in spite of the fundamental connection between the climate change and biodiversity crises, the UNFCCC and issue of climate change have received far more political attention and funding than the CBD and global biodiversity.

Nevertheless, there are high expectations for the 196 governments party to the CBD to reach a new agreement on “ambitious and transformative” action to protect biodiversity before December. The so-called Post-2020 Global Biodiversity Framework is a nature counterpart to the 2015 Paris Agreement on climate change, and will include commitments designed to halt the decline of nature on a global scale.

Biodiversity was supposed to be centre stage in 2020, with China in the role as the president of the CBD and a global conference scheduled in Kunming in October, where the parties would adopt the new framework. Three in-person negotiating meetings were planned in its run-up.

But as the parties convened in Rome in February 2020, COVID-19 was sweeping through Italy.

Read more: https://theconversation.com/december-global-biodiversity-summit-at-risk-of-failure-185084