Netflix still positions Interceptor in the first five. Not sure why. No fake rating can save this cheesy film with unrealistic scenarios and weak action sequences. What disappoints me more is the untapped potential of a theme with greater suspense elements. Mat Reilly is a known aussie writer. Somehow, the script and direction didn’t click. The debut director couldn’t hold the film and characters.

The obvious fall of Interceptor lies in its plotholes. An important interceptor launch center of the US placed in the middle of the Pacific Ocean is where the whole movie happens. There are some scenes to portray wokeism, a fragile thread into captain JJ’s past that failed to connect with the audience.

Now, the whole plot revolves around infiltrators’ attempts to enter the command center and how it is blocked by the three experts in. Script is so supportive of the cheesy talks between Alex Kessel, the lead of operations and captain Collins here, we genuinely think why do they talk even? Did it shock us when Baker reveals himself as an inside man? This formula takes a U-turn to 80’s or even before. Much of the action sequences fall under same timeline. It’s a too-small space for fights and we still see people relive after heavy hits and pierced bullets.

Let’s not skip the funny moments. Watch how Kessel hijacks the live feed and does his preaches to the US people. Funnier was the role of Chris Hemsworth as a store assistant. Recap the conversations between the madam president assisted by experts and the command center guys in such critical moments of missile threats! - the already sinking plot finds no rescue boat here. I didn’t feel any twist when Kessel was killed before JJ. Did you?

Never ignore the woman power led the film - Elsa Pataky. Fast and furious star has bulged muscles and athlete body to smash big muscular men on board. Don’t doubt it, she must have had grueling workout sessions. But, what went wrong? Full screen-time, sole fight sequences, and even that one-hand monkey bar jumping couldn’t save her.