The photos show a man named Евгений Степанович Кобытев, roman: Evgeny Stepanovich Kobytev. And like the word going around stated, these pictures are from before and after his experiences during WW2 – 1941 and 1945.

When the Nazis invaded the Soviet Union, Kobytev was an artist, writer, and teacher who joined the 821st artillery unit as a private gunner.

After being wounded in action, he became a prisoner of war in the Khorol detention camp, where 90.000 prisoners of war and civilians, many of whom were Jews, were slaughtered.

Danylo Lavrentiyovych Shumuk, who was imprisoned by successive regimes for 40 years. The German POW camp was described as a "pit of death," with "prisoners dying like flies from hunger, exposure, and epidemics."

The camp, however, was more than a pit; was a quarry with only a few facilities that the inmates weren't permitted to use, so they spent the majority of their time outside, in the cold and hunting. Kobytev was only able to stay alive by occupying himself with art.

He made sketches of what he saw, it distracted him. When guards found out what he was doing the guards started ordering him to draw their portraits. He was paid in food, terrible quality food, but food. He escaped in 1943 and returned straight to the front lines, fighting all the way to Germany, earning the Order of the Red Star and the Hero of the Soviet Union medal, but was refused the Victory over Germany medal because he had been a prisoner.

After the war he became an art teacher again. Like most who suffered as he did, the rest of his life was impacted by the war. He had nightmares, waking up screaming in the night. But his art helped him and he eventually made a book about his experiences. When his photos are shared and we're told they show the face of a soldier before and during the war, it's an understatement. It's the face of a soldier before and after war but also after the unimaginable horrors of a concentration camp. 

Evgeny Stepanovich Kobytev died on January 29, 1973 in Krasnoyarsk. 

[source: fakehistoryhunt]