The US Secretary of State has announced that he will provide nearly $ 204 million in aid to Afghanistan.

Anthony Blinken has said that with this money, the amount of US aid to Afghanistan since the fall of the country to the Taliban reaches more than 720 million dollars.

This aid is part of the 2.44 billion aid of the world community.

The new US aid package includes 134 million from the State Department and more than 70 million from the United States Agency for International Development.

US Special Representative for Afghanistan Tom West also said in a statement that the United States will continue to assist the Afghan people and welcomes the commitments of other donor countries.

Donors pledged $ 2.440 billion to Afghanistan at an international conference in London on Thursday hosted by Britain, Germany, Qatar and the United Nations.

The United Nations had called for a $ 4 billion and $ 400 million fundraiser, which it described as the largest aid call.

But as many have expressed concern, the Taliban's treatment of women, especially barring girls above grade 6 from attending school, has made countries reluctant to help Afghanistan.

The International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) said in a statement that the international community would press the Taliban leadership to fulfill its human rights obligations to all Afghan citizens, including the right to education for girls.

The statement warned that the Taliban's withdrawal from these commitments would harm the Afghan people and the country's economic growth prospects and the Taliban's desire to strengthen relations with the international community.

The United States, along with Britain, is one of the few countries to announce its fiscal commitment at a conference yesterday.

The US special envoy says the aid is to be used through independent agencies such as the UNHCR, the International Organization for Migration, the UN Population Fund and the UN Children's Fund to address the humanitarian situation inside Afghanistan and Afghan refugees in neighboring countries.