 “Now I get to speak about what is happening to the freedom of expression in India,” Meena Kandasamy—an anti-caste feminist, novelist and poet—told us during an interview, after becoming the winner of the 2022 Hermann Kesten Prize, announced by the German chapter of the PEN International writer’s association. 
The award, instituted in honour of the 20-century renowned German novelist, Hermann Kesten,  recognises and honours individuals who defend the rights of persecuted writers and journalists. 
Kandasamy—whose work primarily revolves around the themes of gender, caste, sexuality, and ethnic subjugation—joins a group of renowned individuals who PEN regards to be champions of free expression, including German novelist and social critic Günter Grass, British writer Harold Pinter, assassinated Russian journalist Anna Politkowskaya, Chinese writer and dissident Liu Xiaobo, and exiled Turkish journalist Can Dündar. 
Speaking out, Kandasamy said, comes at a cost for anyone speaking against the government in today’s India, but it is, she added, worse for women. 
“It is just that when you happen to be a woman writer these attacks get very personal,” said Kandasamy, who confessed to worrying about her two children. “They have a template: they attack your looks, they attack your character, they attack your personal life, they threaten and your children with rape and death.”
In 1985, on the occasion of the 85th birthday of German novelist and dramatist Hermann Kesten as its honorary president, the German chapter of PEN presented the first Hermann Kesten Award medal. Since then, it has recognised individuals whose work has supported persecuted writers. The medal was awarded annually beginning in 1993 after previously being awarded every two years. It was renamed the Hermann Kesten Award in 2008.
Born in 1984 in the capital of southern Indian state of Tamil Nadu, to parents who were university professors, Kandasamy, 37, has been writing poetry and translating books by Dalit writers and leaders into English as early as the age of 17. 
Read more - https://article-14.com/post/-now-i-get-to-speak-out-about-what-is-happening-to-the-freedom-of-expression-in-india--633100aaa128f