Indigenous affairs reform is firmly on the agenda for the newly-elected Albanese government.  

Both in his victory speech on election night and before flying out of the country for a meeting of the Quad, Prime Minister Anthony Albanese affirmed his commitment to addressing long-stalled policies on First Nations issues. 

In front of the newly installed Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander flags in the parliament house media room, the freshly sworn-in Prime Minister referenced the Indigenous Voice to Parliament when outlining his agenda. 

"We will, of course, be advancing the need to have constitutional recognition of First Nations people, including a Voice to Parliament that is enshrined in that constitution," he said. 

Labor made progressing the Uluru Statement an election promise, committing to enshrining an Indigenous Voice to Parliament in the constitution through a referendum — something the former Morrison government refused to do. 

Under the guidance of the first Aboriginal woman to hold the Indigenous Affairs ministry, Linda Burney, it's hoped the Uluru Statement from the Heart can finally be put into action. 

But what is the Uluru Statement? And why does an Indigenous Voice to Parliament need to be included in the constitution? 

How is the Indigenous Voice to Parliament different from the Uluru Statement? 

An Indigenous Voice to Parliament would be a permanent body representing First Nations people at the highest level of government, first put forward as part of the Uluru Statement from the Heart. 

Two hundred and fifty Indigenous delegates met at Uluru, and after days of discussions reached a consensus on the 440-word statement, which was then presented to the federal government. 

The statement has three key objectives: a Voice to Parliament, Treaty, and Truth.

It urges the federal government to establish an Indigenous Voice, negotiate a treaty with the traditional owners of Australia, and facilitate a truth-telling process to record past injustices enacted against Indigenous people. 

A ‘Voice’ would be a body made up of Indigenous Australians that the government would need to consult with on policy and legislation, so First Nations people can have their opinions heard on the laws that are made on and about their country and people. 