In the sweltering heat of the first week of April, about 500 young men who work as delivery personnel for restaurant aggregator and food delivery firm Zomato gathered in the G-Town Maidan of Jamshedpur, Jharkhand.


Some delivery ‘partners’, as they are called, worked on 1 April while about 300 others joined the call for a strike. On 2 April, the numbers of those striking work swelled, and more than 500 workers raised slogans and carried placards and banners to protest a newly introduced system of payments and incentives. 


“I’m fasting now, so that I don’t have to starve the whole year,” said Manik Sahu, a 35-year-old Zomato delivery partner who participated in a hunger strike against the new system. 


The protest was the latest effort by some of about 15 million workers—with the potential to employ 70 to 90 million—to make their employment more secure and gainful in a sector driven by the latest digital technology but dogged by allegations of exploitation (here, here and here). 


The advantages that companies who run their business through computer applications platforms, or apps, tout—a flexible earn-as-you- work-when-you-want model—are also criticised for lack of job security, overwork and lack of social-security nets.


Called ‘GIGS’, Zomato introduced the new system in March 2022. According to workers, the new system reduced the flexibility they previously enjoyed in terms of when and how many deliveries they wished to do in a day, while also shrinking their earnings per delivery.   


The protesting workers had four main demands: Resumption of the old system of payments and incentives; reinstatement of 30 delivery partners terminated in April, apparently for mobilising workers for the strike; payment of outstanding dues; and a functional office in Tatanagar town, as Jamshedpur is also known.  


Workers informed their team leaders that with the new system, their earnings had dropped by about 25%, said Ratan Sahu, a 22-year-old who began to work as a delivery partner while still a B Com student at a Jamshedpur college. 

Read More - https://article-14.com/post/strike-by-zomato-partners-wins-no-concessions-but-brings-a-benefit-unfamiliar-to-india-s-gig-workers-62903ab0f1d5b