Before sending troops into eastern Ukraine, held by Russia-backed rebels, President Vladimir Putin delivered a speech to the Russian nation on Monday to stress his justification for invasion. He argued with a seeming conviction that Ukraine is intrinsically a Russian province, which has stayed independent by default for the last three decades as a result of a series of mistakes by former leaders of the Soviet Union, or the Bolsheviks.

In Putin’s revisionist history, Vladimir Lenin started it all by offering Ukraine the sense of statehood and autonomy in the newly created Union of Socialist Soviet Republic (USSR). Joseph Stalin added land to Ukraine and his successor Nikita Khrushchev snatched Crimea from Russia to further extend Ukraine’s border, claimed Putin. Then the country completely slipped away from Russia after the Soviet Union collapsed and Ukrainians aligned with western countries, “mindlessly emulating foreign models”.  

But experts in history say Putin concocted history to push his imperialistic ambition like medieval Russian Czars who had claimed almost the entire Eastern Europe as their empire. If Putin is not immediately stopped, he will try to extend his grip to other ex-Soviet nations that broke away from the USSR in 1991, ending the Cold War.  

Ukraine’s history is much more complicated and multi-layered than what Putin describes. Ukraine’s nationalism dates back to over two centuries, much before the USSR was created or the Communist movement in Russia. In reality, Lenin and his successors had crushed Ukrainian nationalism and were forced to offer a loose autonomy to them. Besides, a large part of Ukraine had been a part of an Austro-Hungarian Empire in the past, it was not entirely Russia. Also, after the disintegration of the USSR it was not Moscow that granted Ukraine independent statehood, Ukrainians had voted to leave the Soviet grip through a democratic referendum.   

Contrary to Putin’s claim, Ukrainians, with their unique culture and language, have consistently asserted their distinct identity for centuries. 

READ MORE:

https://theconversation.com/putins-invasion-of-ukraine-attacks-its-distinct-history-and-reveals-his-imperial-instincts-177669

https://www.newyorker.com/news/q-and-a/vladimir-putins-revisionist-history-of-russia-and-ukraine

https://www.nbcnews.com/news/world/putin-russia-ukraine-history-speech-rcna17132