By Syeda Hasan

17-year-old Asha (name changed) is a mother of four children and a victim of domestic violence. Asha hails from Tufanganj in the Cooch Behar district of West Bengal. She was married at eleven to her 20-year-old cousin Praveen (name changed), a truck driver. After one such event of physical abuse recently, Asha’s mother Rekha (name changed) – who works as a housemaid in Delhi – rescued her bruised daughter from Bengal and brought her to the national capital. Soon after reaching Delhi, Rekha was shocked to find that her daughter was 21 weeks pregnant. This would be Asha’s fifth child in an abusive marriage. But this time, Asha was resolute and decided to abort the child.

Jasmine George, Founder of Hidden Pockets speaks to The Probe’s Syeda Hasan:- https://youtu.be/ktmdR1rczrk

Over the course of one week, the mother-daughter duo went to several abortion centres and hospitals in Delhi. Rekha narrates her ordeal, “We walked from pillar to post to get the pregnancy termination done. My daughter and I were humiliated and ridiculed, even by big hospitals. Because of our poor background, we were told that it is expensive to get an abortion done but easier to raise the child. They asked my daughter what she was thinking when she had sex with her husband. I was asked why I got my daughter married off if she didn’t want a child. We were asked to get her abusive husband’s permission for the abortion, and this went on for several days”.

Finally, a local clinic in Delhi facilitated the abortion on May 27 this year. They also helped Asha file a case related to domestic abuse against her husband.

After the US Supreme Court overturned the landmark 1973 Roe vs Wade judgement that made abortion a constitutional right, many Indians have been ostentatiously bragging about the superiority and preeminence of Indian laws related to medical termination of pregnancy.

Read the full story here:- https://theprobe.in/abortion-laws-why-should-india-revise-the-medical-termination-of-pregnancy-act/