Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) chief Sharad Pawar has refused to be the Opposition's presidential candidate. 

The argument being given by the NCP is that Pawar is still an active politician and meets hundreds of people everyday and hence would not like to be confined to the Rashtrapati Bhawan only. 

Moreover, Pawar will be busy in bringing all the opposition together ahead of the 2024 Lok Sabha elections, his party said. 

The NCP is likely to propose senior Congress leader Ghulam Nabi Azad's name and seek support from all parties, including the BJP. 

Azad shares a cordial relations with Prime Minister Narendra Modi to the extent that the government extended indefinitely his stay in the official bungalow, which he, otherwise, would have had to vacate within few months of his retirement as a Rajya Sabha member. When he retired as the Leader of the Opposition in February last year, Modi became too emotional as tears rolled out of his eyes remembering an incident when some Gujaratis were killed by militants in the valley when Azad was the Jammu and Kashmir chief minister. 

But the big question is whether Modi will agree to Azad's candidature given that he comes from the Congress party even as the BJP and the RSS would be keen to have their person installed on the country's top post. 

If Modi agrees, it will be yet another attempt on his part to get back at the Congress in his own way after his government awarded Bharat Ratna to former President Pranab Mukherjee. 

If the BJP supports Azad, it will send positive signal not only to Jammu and Kashmir and the Muslim community in large but to the Arab world also at a time when the Middle East is up in arms over Nupur Sharma's remarks against the Prophet. 

The names of Arif Mohammad Khan is also doing the rounds. There is no clarity yet on Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi's future role. 

All eyes are now on the BJP as it gets ready to announce it's presidential candidate. 

On the other hand, the Opposition too is holding deliberations to zero in on its consensus candidate.