According to the Forbes world's richest list, Bill Gates, the founder of Microsoft, has been surpassed by Gautam Adani, the richest man in India, who is now the fourth richest person in the world. Gates said last week that he will be giving $20 billion of his riches to his non-profit organisation, the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation, elevating Gautam Adani's standing by one position. After then, according to Forbes, Gautam Adani and his family surpassed Bill Gates in terms of fortune, with $115 billion.

The Indian businessman, who serves as the chairman of the Adani Group, surpassed all other Asians in terms of wealth earlier this year and rose to the fifth-richest position in the world. According to research from Forbes' Real-Time Billionaires List, the Adani family is worth $115.6 billion, or almost $11 billion more than Bill Gates, whose net worth is $104.2 billion.

Adani fell just $7 billion short of Bill Gates, the co-founder of Microsoft, who at the time held the fourth-richest position in the world with a net worth of $130.2 billion, when he rose to the fifth-richest position in April.

Adani, whose empire consists of ports, mining, and green energy, is currently only behind three other corporate tycoons in the world: Tesla CEO Elon Musk and Amazon CEO Jeff Bezos, both of whom have estimated net worths of $143.9 billion and $154.9 billion, respectively. With a current estimated net worth of $115.6 billion, Gautam Adani is also the richest individual in India. According to Forbes, since early 2021, the Indian tycoon's wealth has more than doubled. In 2008, when he had a $9.3 billion net worth, he made his first appearance on Forbes' list of the world's billionaires.

In order to celebrate his 60th birthday, Adani had earlier in June promised to donate Rs 60,000 crore to charity. The donations would be used for healthcare, education, and skill development, according to a statement from his logistics-to-energy business. The highest charity contributions made by an Indian corporation were made, and the company joined the ranks of world billionaires like Warren Buffett and Mark Zuckerberg.