On 26 June 2022, 21 young people died at the Enyobeni tavern in East London, in South Africa’s Eastern Cape province. The incident refocused public attention on the safety of young people in the country.

The direct cause of the 21 deaths has not yet been determined. But questions are being asked about why children under the age of 18 were consuming alcohol in the tavern.

Questions about teenage alcohol consumption are particularly pertinent given how frequent alcohol use is among young people in South Africa and the considerable harm caused by underage drinking. One third of the South African population is under the age of 18.

A 2011 national survey of learners in grades 8 to 11 found that 37% of males and 28% of females reported drinking in the past 30 days. An alarming 30% of male and 20% of female learners reported binge drinking during the same period. A more recent survey in the Western Cape found that 5.6% of first-year university students reported an alcohol use disorder in the past 12 months.

The latest Child Gauge report drew attention to a number of child and adolescent health issues. The publication gives an annual snapshot of the situation of children in South Africa. Some of the issues highlighted were the problems associated with underage drinking and the need for public and government action to safeguard young people.

Globally, alcohol is a leading risk factor for death and disability among adolescents aged 15 to 19 years. South Africa is no exception. Several factors shape the patterns of alcohol use. These include the accessibility and affordability of alcohol as well as indiscriminate marketing. This highlights the need for child-centred laws that restrict access to alcohol, regulate marketing and establish minimum unit pricing.

Drivers and impact
Adolescent alcohol consumption is driven by several factors. These include the availability of alcohol and social norms. The media also play an influential role in young people’s drinking habits.

Read more: https://theconversation.com/tavern-tragedy-reinforces-need-to-give-priority-to-tackling-underage-drinking-in-south-africa-186396