8 Gavi
He may be an early entrant on the list, but Gavi has demonstrated enticing aspects of his game. He is one of the sharp-witted midfielders whose work-rate is unrivalled. After impressing Xavi, Gavi was promoted to Barcelona at the age of 17 and started every game. The 18-year-old has promises to be a best midfielder, and has a long road ahead of him.
7 Yaya Touré
Originally a striker, Toure shifted to holding midfielder or box-to-box player, frequently
switching between offensive and defensive roles. Toure was tall and had excellent ball
control; he had pure passing range and vision, and he would stay back and act as a three-man defensive line.
He joined Barcelona from Monaco and frequently played alongside Xavi and Iniesta. He left for Manchester City after winning the Champions League and playing 118 games.
6 Seydou Keita
Keita was the first Malian player to play for Barcelona, and he was an indispensable member of the Catalan giants, appearing in two Champions League finals. He was a primary midfielder who would operate as an attacking midfielder. When given space, Keita would punish his opponents with a defense-breaking pass, complementing Xavi and Iniesta. Keita played in 188 games during his four-year career.
5 Ivan Rakitic
After Xavi reached twilight year and announced retirement in 2015, Barcelona wanted a replacement who could complement Iniesta, and Rakitic's name discovered on everyone mind. During his time at Sevilla, he was an influential midfielder who stepped up to take Xavi's place. He and Iniesta functioned well together, forming a creative midfield trio.
One of only a few Barcelona midfielders to have scored in a Champions League final and won four La Liga titles. Rakitic was capable of breaking down play and transitioning the game into attack despite his lack of speed. Before joining Sevilla, the Croatian played 310 games and scored 36 goals.
4 Pedri
Pedri was not a product of La Masia, but he was a component of Barcelona, and he wasfrequently compared to Iniesta for his creativity and dribbling skills in tight spaces.