Footballers had always been the neglected lot in Indian football. As active footballers, they played their hearts out, but once their careers were over, hardly anyone cared about them – they rarely had a say in the administration, which was mostly dominated by people who never played the game.
Things, however, are changing. At least that’s what one can hope about. Reports suggest that the Supreme Court-appointed Committee of Administrators (CoA) for the All India Football Federation (AIFF) is considering making provisions in the constitution to include former footballers for the development of sport in the country.
The AIFF, in a notification on its website, has requested former India internationals (men and women), who are aged below 66 years and have played at least five official international matches for India and have retired from active football at least two years ago, to send their details to the federation.
“CoA is considering making provisions for the former footballers of the country to participate in the country’s football development in a bigger way. In the new constitution of AIFF, a provision will be made to accommodate former players in centre and state associations,” sources have revealed.
In the old AIFF constitution, only technical, futsal and players status committees had the presence of former players. The national team's director Abhishek Yadav was the only footballer in AIFF's erstwhile executive committee, headed by former president Praful Patel.
The CoA, led by Justice Anil Dave (former judge, Supreme Court of India), Dr SY Quraishi (former Chief Election Commissioner of India), and Bhaskar Ganguly (former India football captain), also met the seven-member committee, representing state associations of the AIFF to discuss various aspects of and suggestions on the draft constitution.
In the two-hour meeting, the SA representatives put forward several ideas for consideration by the CoA. It is learnt that during the discussion, the state associations and CoA decided to include more former footballers for the development of sport in the country. Earlier, the CoA members along with AIFF’s new acting general secretary Sunando Dhar met the coach Igor Stimac, captain Sunil Chhetri and players two footballers, Gurpreet Singh Sandhu and Sandesh Jhingan.