When it comes to gay and lesbian matter, do we still stutter?
How repressive and regressive our society is to acknowledge their identities in public?
How a middle class Indian family with uncles, aunties, brothers, sisters, in-laws (prefix is open) grandmas, grandpas… and even neighbours and office folk see and process it – That’s what Badhaai Do (Bollywood movie) is trying to address. And the script is ambitious to grab and portray everything around the subject. Perhaps, one of the best politically correct one in recent times. Suman Adhikary and Akshat Ghildia, script writers of Badaai do, deserve a mention.

protagonists – Suman and Shardul are in a lavender marriage. It’s a delight to watch how they meet each other and exchange their vulnerable situations in life. Shardul is a muscleman cop and Suman is a PT teacher. Both find it difficult to be assertive enough to stand by their choice of life. Film takes a ground level approach here, instead of sending people away to foreign countries to exercise their liberal views. The couple takes bold moves to balance their conventional families and own choices. Of course, it can’t be same forever. It’s not end of the world if you decide to open up your realities to dear ones. In fact, that gives wings to your choices. Learning and unlearning, crossing all those conditioned puzzles, you get there!

Director Harshavardhan Kulkarni never compromises on the depiction of real scenarios faced by LGBTQ community in conventional societies. He touches upon the impact of emotional variations and owning up in their intimate spaces. Scenes in which Suman reacts to Shardul’s typical male egoes impressed me, such politically correct assertiveness would mute many superficial arguments in our household. Rimjhim Jongkey played by Chum Darang (debut) goes way beyond in attitude. She is quite sure of her needs as a lesbian partner and fights anything comes her way against it. Also, sensible enough to extend her support in critical scenarios. Sort of idealisation.

Badaai Do is an entertainer, a family comedy drama genre. Rajkummar Rao and Bhumi Pednekar enacted their roles really well. I recommend a watch.