Representatives of #nationalgames:
On Tuesday, #Gujarat will serve as the official host city for the #nationalgames 2022, an amateur multi-sport competition modelled after the Olympics. As the iconic event makes its comeback after a seven-year hiatus, the state will be hosting the National Games for the first time.
Olympic medalists Neeraj Chopra, PV Sindhu, and Bajrang Punia won't be competing in the #NationalGames while they heal from injuries, but there won't be a shortage of other notable athletes.
The greatest stars competing at the National Games are boxer Lovlina Borgohain (Assam), who won bronze, and weightlifter Mirabai Chanu (Manipur), who won silver at Tokyo 2020.
Srihari Nataraj, an Olympian who currently owns the 50, 100, and 200 metre backstroke national records for India, will compete for Karnataka.
Dutee Chand (women's 100m), Hima Das (women's 400m), Amlan Borgohain (men's 100m and 200m), Murali Sreeshankar (men's long jump), Annu Rani (women's javelin throw), and Jyothi Yarraji (women's 100m) are among the Indian athletes competing in Gujarat who have national records.
Dutee Chand of Odisha won the women's 100-meter race at the 2015 National Games in Kerala.
Lakshya Sen (Uttarakhand), who placed third in the world championships, and HS Prannoy (Kerala), a teammate who won the Thomas Cup, will compete in the badminton competition.
Additionally set to compete are Atanu Das (West Bengal), a former world champion in men's recurve archery, Shiva Thapa (Assam), a former Asian boxing champion, Manu Bhaker (a junior Olympic gold medallist in women's pistol shooting), and Olympian Praveen Jadhav (Maharashtra).
At the most recent tournament, Sajan Prakash, a swimmer from Kerala, took home eight medals, including six gold and two silver.
At the most recent tournament, Sajan Prakash, a swimmer from Kerala, took home eight medals, including six gold and two silver.
Services won the most medals overall (159 in total), followed by Kerala and Haryana with 91 gold medals each.