When Liverpool visits Manchester, be it the blue side or the red side, people expect fireworks. Since United's fall from grace, the derby between United and Liverpool has lost its shine. And the club from Merseyside has often got the better of their Manchester rivals in their recent meetings. To add to United's misery, their neighbors, City have risen to be the superior power in the land. Sky blue has overshadowed the red and white in the past few years. 

After bridging the impossible 14 point gap between them and City. Liverpool traveled to Etihad in hopes of dethroning the champions in their backyard. Liverpool had the chance to stifle City and claim the number 1 position in the league table. Along with establishing a two-point lead at the top. On the other hand, a win for City meant a dagger in the heart of Klopp and his men. As City would've been in the driving seat for the remainder of the season. Given the run of fixtures for both teams, Liverpool had to bring their A-game to the Etihad. On paper, the Kopites have a more complex set of fixtures (with the likes of United and Tottenham in the mix) as compared to their rivals. 

The match between the two ended in a 2-2 thriller, like their previous meeting in Anfield. It was a high-class, end-to-end contest between the two and is arguably a contender for "the game of the season." The atmosphere inside the Etihad was tense, as the thousands in attendance were aware of the magnitude of the fixture. City started the match like champions and annihilated Klopp and his men for the entirety of the first half. It was looking like Liverpool would be sent back to Merseyside with their tails firmly gripped between their legs. 

Kevin De Bruyne was the star of the fixture and could've bagged a handful of assists. The Belgian also opened the scoring and aced the midfield for City. Liverpool was much better in the second half and rightfully merits the 2-2 scoreline.

It is advantage City, going into the last set of fixtures in the PL.