Luke Brooks has nailed a final-minute field goal to kick the Wests Tigers to a 23-22 win over South Sydney.

In Saturday's earlier match, North Queensland outclassed Gold Coast 30-4 in Townsville.

After Jackson Hastings sent home a field goal to sink Parramatta on Easter Monday, it was Brooks who was the hero at the Western Sydney Stadium.

Standing on almost the same patch of turf with 59 seconds to play, Brooks nailed the field goal from 25 metres out to secure a second straight win for the Tigers.

The kick capped an enthralling clash, which swayed both ways and claimed a number of casualties with the Rabbitohs finishing with just one on the bench.

On a brutal night for the Rabbitohs, Jacob Host hurt his shoulder and Liam Knight his leg, while Hame Sele was concussed in the opening minutes.

The Tigers' win also came at a cost, with fullback Daine Laurie suffering a suspected medial ligament injury in his knee and sitting out the second half.

Ken Maumalo also limped off late, before Brooks's final-minute heroics.

Often maligned for their lack of organisation and with Brooks under fire after their poor start to the year, it was the Tigers who handled the final minutes better.

While Hastings missed two shots for the Tigers, Taane Milne made a late attacking error and Jai Arrow also rushed a panicked shot at field goal.

His mis-kick that barely left the ground put the Tigers on the attack, and while Jock Madden was initially charged down an accidental offside gave Brooks the defining chance.

In truth, the Tigers had always looked the better team.

With Hastings at halfback and Brooks at five-eighth, Michael Maguire's side look a completely different side that went 0-5 through the opening five rounds.

They completed at 98 per cent, making just three errors for the match while still throwing plenty at the Rabbitohs' defence.

Laurie was in everything before his injury, putting David Nofoaluma over for the Tigers' first with a quick catch-and-pass from Hastings.

Read more here:- 
https://www.abc.net.au/news/2022-04-23/nrl-round-seven-cowboys-titans-tigers-rabbitohs/100998312