The state of Kerala, located in the south-western part of India, has an intriguing history of migration. It has been a global labour migration hot-spot since the beginning of 20th century.  With the introduction of colonial economy and subsequent spread of modern education, malayalees have been prompted to migrate to different parts of the world, particularly to East Asian countries. Since the independence of India, however, the state of Kerala, with its spectacular achievement in the education sector, has a unique distinction of having a relatively substantive population that has given rise to a category that may be classified as ‘educated unemployment’. The lack of employment opportunities within the state has been largely responsible for the migration of malayalees within India and abroad, and the oil boom of 1960/70s in the West Asia was a blessing in disguise for the economically stagnated state.  As a result of migration, there is a drastic change in the economic and social sphere, which created money order economy. The economic base of the much acclaimed Kerala model of development is undoubtedly based on voluminous remittances that the state has been receiving for more than four decades. When compared to its South Asian counterparts, Kerala has a unique place in the geography of remittances. According to the World Bank, in 2019 South Asian countries received remittances to the extent of nearly US$140 billion, out of which India received US$83.1 billion, Pakistan  US$ 22.5, Bangladesh US$18.3, Nepal US$ 8.1 and Sri Lanka US$ 6.7. Interestingly in the year 2021, due to the large scale exodus of migrants in the context of Covid 19, remittances flow to India has increased to US$ 87 billion, and Kerala’s share amplified to nearly 16 billion US dollars (19 percent), which is more than the annual remittances being received by Bangladesh. 

Though the Gulf pockets across South Asia including Kerala have prospered over last four decades, the hardships and precarious conditions of migrant laborers is continuing unendingly without any concrete remedies.  

To Be Continued.