A pulsating, yet ill-tempered London Derby ended 2-2 as Harry Kane left it very late to poke home and snatch a point at a venue where Spurs have been historically bad. The game also saw an ugly altercation between managers Thomas Tuchel and Antonio Conte, which resulted in a melee, and ended up with both men receiving red cards, and tarnishing an otherwise enthralling game.

On a ground that has been their kryptonite, it was Spurs that started the better of the team, with a couple of jinking runs and getting behind the Chelsea defence saw them dominating the early exchanges. However, it didn't take long for Chelsea to ascertain their dominance in the game, with Ruben Loftus-Cheek having a brilliant game at right wing-back. And Chelsea's dominance was duly rewarded with the new boys getting involved. Marc Cucurella picked out an unmarked Koulibaly, and the Senegal international smashed a beautiful volley which left Lloris rooted to the spot. 

The goal briefly bought Spurs into action, with Ryan Sessegnon getting behind the Chelsea defence only for a sprawling Mendy to deny the fullback. The second half had a similar flow to the game, with Chelsea pushing and probing and Spurs somehow hanging on. But against the run of play, Spurs found the leveller in controversial circumstances. Bentancur nicked Havertz, which looked like a foul, and then the game carried on, which ended with Holjberg scoring from range. While it felt like Richarlison could have been interfering with Mendy's line of sight, VAR let the goal stand. However, Chelsea didn't let the situation faze them and went ahead and took the lead, courtesy of Recce James, after some really good work from Raheem Sterling. It felt like that was the winner, but the drama wasn't done yet. What looked like a clear hair-pull by Christian Romero on Cucurella, went unpunished inspite of VAR, and then Kane scored from the resultant corner. Cue the pandemonium after the final whistle, where the managers' customary handshake resulted in a full-blown scrap between two highly charged individuals. Both men received their marching orders to finally put an end to a brilliant game of football.