When U.S. figure skater Nathan Chen won the gold medal in men’s figure skating at the 2022 Winter Olympics, a Washington Post article attributed his win to a fierce, focused, “robotic” zeal. This robotic characterization draws on a dated stereotype of Asians as stoic, unfeeling workaholics.

In my book “Model Machines: A History of the Asian as Automaton,” I argue that the image of Asians as robotic serves as the perfect example of how majority cultures characterize a certain kind of minority as model workers and threats.

In the United States there has been a popular belief that Asian people are ruthless competitors obsessed with technical achievement, whether as classical pianists, spelling bee champs or math whizzes. This was the basis for the model minority myth. However, projections of the model minority often fuse into Asian roboticism, the notion that Asians act or behave like technological beings.

What happens when someone is seen as the perfect kind of human automaton?

Insofar as Asian lives are reduced to caricature, and their humanity disavowed, what emerges is a negative stereotype of Asians as uncreative cogs raised by “tiger parents” who teach their children total obeisance to authority, education researchers in Australia write.

Mental perceptions then shape social interaction.

In a 2009 study, social psychologists discovered that white people read East Asian faces as machinelike, bearing less-than-human qualities. This imaginary association bears a history, as media scholar Lisa Nakamura points out. When you brand someone as robotic, “you’re saying that what they make is not unique or worthy of recognition. Which is the history of Asian labor in the U.S.”

Representing Asians as automatons

When everyday people are rendered as robots, any sort of human rights are denied, and all sorts of abuses can occur.

Read full story at The Conversation: https://theconversation.com/calling-asians-robotic-is-a-racist-stereotype-with-a-long-troubled-history-177877

Image courtesy: https://www.gettyimages.com/detail/news-photo/nathan-chen-of-team-united-states-competes-during-the-men-news-photo/1369712093?adppopup=true