COVID-19 has inflicted a serious mental health toll on many U.S. workers.

Like other Americans, workers have lost loved ones, connections to friends and family, and the comforts of their daily social rhythms. The pandemic has also imposed a unique set of stresses on workers, including the risks of losing their job, rapid adjustments to working from home and additional workloads. And workers on the front line must face an increased risk of infection and increasingly aggressive customer interactions.

As a result, many of these workers – especially those like nurses, doctors and teachers – are reporting elevated levels of anxiety, depression and sleeping problems. Americans are also drinking a lot more alcohol and overeating, and engaging in less physical activity. One-third of them have gained weight since the start of the pandemic.

I research the negative effects of stress on health and sleep. I also see many of these issues firsthand in my work as a clinical psychologist treating local firefighters for stress and other issues they encounter on the job and in their lives.

Get facts about the coronavirus pandemic and the latest research

Science newsletter
I’ve learned workers are better able to navigate mental health issues when their employers have a plan in place. Based on my own work as well as other research, I believe there are five key strategies that companies could adopt.

1. Creating clear policies

With the increased stress levels brought on by the pandemic, managers may see more employees experiencing personal crises or disruptive behavior that is affecting their work performance.

Psychological distress can lead to disruptive behavior, such as yelling at colleagues or throwing objects in anger. At the other extreme, employees may isolate themselves or avoid collaborations. Some workers may express suicidal thoughts over social media or by other means.

Full story at The Conversation: https://theconversation.com/5-strategies-employers-can-use-to-address-workplace-mental-health-issues-173818

Image Credits: https://www.gettyimages.com/detail/photo/business-woman-lying-on-exercise-ball-in-office-royalty-free-image/200566862-002