It is not rare for a college or university to provide unusual or atypical courses. However, one college in Salt Lake City may have done something unprecedented.

Students can take a two-credit pornography course at Westminster College, a private, accredited liberal arts college. Literature, media, and writing; gender studies; and film are among the themes covered in the course.

Crazy, right? So I thought. I spent the last few hours wondering whether it is a good, or even appropriate, idea or not. I mean, getting students involved in pornography sounds atrocious.

But there's another thing I can't possibly overlook. Porn websites are visited by 40 million people in the United States on a regular basis. Pornography is responsible for 35% of all internet downloads. That is a huge huge number! And when such an overwhelming number of people consume a certain piece of media, shouldn't it be studied properly to be more consumable? Pornography is one of the strongest contributors to racism, sexism, pedophilia and transphobia—a violent contributor. While it may all look fictional, which it is, it cannot be denied it affects young minds a lot, a lot of kids learn about sex through porn, which is a big issue in itself. People often blur the line between fiction and reality when it comes to this form of media. I think it is very important to be conscious of what is created there. It is concerning that some of the most popular topics looked for in there are about non-consensual sex, pedophilia and sexism. This industry needs a radical change, and it can only come through proper education. Budding directors, producers and actors in the industry need to be taught what is and isn't off limits and just because it is fantasy does not mean it is okay. However, I do think this course must not be mandatory because a lot of people are comfortable watching it in public, or at all.

What are your thoughts about this course? Should it be a thing? In my opinion, it should exist, but carefully enough to not mess with a sensitive topic like this.