The odds are better than even that by the end of the week, New York State will move to authorize three casino licenses for the New York City area.

Gov. Kathy Hochul is pushing to include a provision in the state budget that would fast-track the licenses. Some lawmakers dream of a no-limit game, or almost — definitely a windfall in revenue for the state. And casino companies aren’t the only ones who are salivating. So are real estate developers, hoping for a big payout after the difficult years of the pandemic.

Mayor Eric Adams wants to be at the hot table. He is eager for New York City to get two of the three licenses, his spokesman said, and not see the second end up somewhere else, like Long Island. Frank Carone, Adams’s chief of staff, recently met with Robert Goldstein, the chief executive of Las Vegas Sands, at Goldstein’s pied-à-terre on the Upper East Side.

For now, the action is in Albany, where the high rollers are seven gambling companies that are spending more than $300,000 a month on a lobbying blitz.

They have been coordinating with the influential union representing hotel workers, which renamed itself the Hotel and Gaming Trades Council last year and whose president describes the casino licenses as its top priority in Albany. The union says that new casinos in and around New York City would mean jobs for thousands of hotel workers who were laid off when the pandemic decimated tourism.

The connections between the casino companies and the union are so close that in several cases, the union shares lobbyists with casino companies. Peter Ward, the union’s former president, lobbies for Genting — the union’s largest employer — as well as Bally’s. He is a registered lobbyist for the union.

Resorts World has invested in a public-relations campaign — New Yorkers for Responsible Gaming — spotlighting how casinos would benefit hotel workers. It is being run by Neal Kwatra, a political consultant who also does work for the union. 

Read more
https://www.nytimes.com/2022/03/30/nyregion/casino-bonanza-may-soon-hit-new-york.html

Credit :- The New York Times