New Delhi: A Pune police refusal to reply to right-to-information (RTI) queries about the use of Israeli spyware Pegasus raise several questions about whether the military-grade hacking weapon was deployed in implicating lawyers, activists, and academics in the Bhima Koregaon-Elgar Parishad (BK-EP) case, which invokes India’s draconian counter-terrorism law,  the Unlawful Activities Prevention Act, 1967. 


Over the course of the past year, this reporter filed seven RTI applications with the Pune police commissioner’s office seeking answers about Pegasus and any possible links with it. The reason answers were sought from Pune police—under the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and Shiv Sena coalition government in 2018—was due to their role in initially investigating the BK-EP case before the National Investigation Agency (NIA) took over. 


Reports have since confirmed that at least eight of the accused activists may have been the target of the spyware and malware called NetWire. This malware allows a hacker to gain access to the target’s devices and even plant documents.


The Washington Post in February 2021 had reported that around 22 incriminating documents were planted using this malware in the laptop of one of the Bhima Koregaon accused- Rona Wilson before his arrest in June 2018. These files have, since 15 November 2018, been cited, initially by the Pune police and then by the NIA, as key evidence, leading to the arrest of 15 others including lawyers, academics, and activists.



There have been growing concerns about government snooping on citizens, especially those critical of them. Largely, surveillance remains widespread and unaccountable in India. Executive oversight over executive surveillance has failed and experts are calling for urgent surveillance reforms.
No Law Authorises Hacking Of Individual’s Device

The police refused to admit any of the seven RTIs on technical grounds, thereby evading an admission or denial of the spyware’s usage. 

Read More - https://article-14.com/post/pune-police-evade-queries-on-pegasus-use-in-koregaon-elgar-case-6270550ec920c