With Manchester United and Spurs both getting a harsh reality check at the home of their city rivals, match week 8 was a goal fest. And here are the five talking points from this weekend's fixture. 
5) Everton and Newcastle back to winning ways
After a horrific start to their new campaign, the Evertonians have something to cheer about after winning two games on a trot. Their new signings, Coady and McNeil, secured the three points for Lampard. 
Newcastle United also got back into winning ways after hammering a ten-men Fulham team. Almiron netted in twice as the Geordies scored 4 in Craven Cottage. 
4) Potter grabs his first win as Chelsea boss. 
Chelsea was on the ropes, and it was not at all an easy ride for Potter. Palace has been brilliant under Viera and led Chelsea before Gallagher (The eagles' star last season) came off the bench to break Palace's heart. New signing, Aubameyang also netted his first in a blue shirt as Potter grabbed his first win in a hotly contested London derby.  
3) A big move for Trosssard in the summer?
Leandro Trossard's and Brighton's exceptional start to this campaign is not getting enough praise. The Seagulls recently lost their manager and still managed to make a mockery of the Reds in their backyard. Trossard grabbed a hattrick as Liverpool merely managed to scrap out a draw. The Belgian international has bagged in 5 this season and is destined for a big move this summer. 
2) Arsenal is ready for the crucial fixtures ahead.
Arsenal ran riot at Emirates as they blew away their bitter rivals Tottenham to secure the top spot. The Gunners are oozing class and are clearly the favorites against Liverpool in a mouth-watering tie this weekend. 
1) Haaland gets his revenge 
The demolition of United was a statement by  Manchester City. The Blues are not playing around and are the team to dethrone this term. Erling Haaland grabbed his third hat trick in just eight games this term. The Norwegian is a machine and is making a mockery of PL defenders. There is simply no stopping City at this rate.