Fosters health and learning with all the measures at its disposal.
Engages health and education officials, teachers, teachers' unions, students, parents, health providers and community leaders in efforts to make the school a healthy place.
Strives to provide a healthy environment, school health education, and school health services along with school/community projects and outreach, health promotion programmes for staff, nutrition and food safety programmes, opportunities for physical education and recreation, and programmes for counseling, social support and mental health promotion.
Implement policies and practices that respect an individual's well being and dignity, provide multiple opportunities for success, and acknowledge good efforts and intentions as well as personal achievements.
Strives to improve the health of school personnel, families and community members as well as pupils; and works with community leaders to help them understand how the community contributes to, or undermines, health and education.
Goals of Health Promoting Schools across the globe.
Building capacities for peace, shelter, education, food, income, a stable ecosystem, equity, social justice, sustainable development.
Recognise the importance of the participation and consultation of all stakeholders in a school community.
Promote health and well being for all members of the school community: students, teachers, parents and the local community around it.
Encourage planning/coordinated action and use of resources rather than a reactive response to crises.
Preventing leading causes of death, disease and disability: tobacco use, HIV/AIDS/STDs, sedentary lifestyle, drugs and alcohol, violence and injuries, unhealthy nutrition.
Influencing health-related behaviours: knowledge, beliefs, skills, attitudes, values and support.
Provide screening and counseling for common child and adolescent concerns, depression, stress, anxiety, aggression as continuous behaviour issues.

How can we go about becoming a health promoting school?
Members of the school community: leaders, teachers, students and parents
can do training in the HPS framework.
Officers in Curriculum Support: Health Promoting Schools Officers and the Drug Education Officer can help with information, resources and presentations.
These officer would provide a useful network of health related community agencies, health coordinators, and members of school communities. Forums and meetings need to be held throughout the year to share ideas on themes, stories, successes and the challenges of health promotion in schools.