Sir Dorabji Tata was the greatest industrial tycoon of the country who made the Indian sports world champion of the world with his hard work, resources and funding.  Today the world recognizes Major Dhyan Chand, but people have forgotten how important the contribution of Sir Dorabji has been behind giving recognition to Dhyan Chand.  It is the matter of 1920 when Sir Dorabji Tata sent the first 6-member Indian team to play the Olympics at his own expense.  In 1927, due to the hard work and efforts of the second chairman of the Tata group, Sir Dorabji Tata, the Indian Olympic Association was established and Sir Tata became its first president.  In the 1928 Amsterdam Olympic Games, the Indian Olympic Association selected a 27-member strong team, including a men's hockey team.  Nine nations participated in hockey, and India was the only non-European team.  The Indian team excelled in their opening games, beating Denmark, Belgium, Austria and Switzerland by huge margins.  Ultimately in the final match, in front of a huge crowd of about 23,400 people, India defeated the Netherlands 3–0 to win their first Olympic gold medal.  The great Dhyan Chand was the top goal-scorer—he scored fourteen magical goals in that singles tournament and won a gold medal to his name.
It was an exciting and proud historical moment for our country.  It was the start of a series of Olympic gold medals for the Indian men's hockey team.  Sir Dorabji Tata himself was selected as a member of the International Olympic Committee, another proud moment for India.
Reliance Foundation of Reliance Industries, headed by Mrs. Nita Ambani, has created a strong sports wing which has done excellent research work.  Mrs. Ambani, a member of the International Olympic Committee, should come forward to take the Indian sports world forward in a big way.  Today, when there is a political upheaval in all the sporuding the Indian Olympic Association and there is a huge shortage of money and facilities in the playgrounds, in such a situation, a group like Reliance should come forward and support the sports world.  Somebody should show a heart like Sir Dorabji Tata.