India is yet to vaccinate its population under 12 years of age .
As covid 19 effects seem to get milder, debates about the whether the population under 12 should be vaccinated or not is also going on. 
In western countries and many developed countries in Middle East, the population of children above 5 years have been vaccinated and the scientific community is debating what is there for below 5 years . Hospital admissions in age group below 12 were very less compared to the adult or teens. So are these vaccines meaningful for this age group at all. 

Reads this article in BMJ 

It took a year for covid-19 vaccines to be tested and approved for use in children. As countries now reach out to the youngest age group, David Cox reports on the evidence for their effectiveness and deployment

On 18 June 2022, regulators in the US voted to authorise the rollout of Pfizer and Moderna’s covid-19 vaccines to children under the age of 5, meaning that the jabs will now be available to an estimated 20 million babies and toddlers.1 The decision sees the US join Argentina, Bahrain, Chile, China, Cuba, Hong Kong, the United Arab Emirates, and Venezuela in offering covid-19 vaccines to the youngest age category.2 Regulators in Europe are predicted to follow in the coming weeks.

Commissioners at the US Food and Drug Administration (FDA) said that vaccinating under 5s will provide vital protection against hospital admissions and death, with Peter Marks, director of the FDA’s Centre for Biologics Evaluation and Research, describing it as “a milestone.”

But not all scientists are convinced that vaccinating under 5s will make a meaningful difference in tackling the pandemic.

“The risk of severe covid-19 in children is very, very low in terms of hospital admissions, fatalities, and long term problems,” says Shamez Ladhani, a paediatric infectious diseases specialist at St George’s Hospital, London. “You end up having to vaccinate a lot of children to have a little bit of improvement in terms of outcomes at a population level.” 

https://www.bmj.com/content/378/bmj.o1892