By NewsDrum Desk

"Happiness means productivity”, as quoted by Shawn Anchor. As when we are happy at our workplaces, we feel more motivated to do our work and try to put in our best efforts. 

However, 59% of the Indian workforce is not happy at work, reveals a “Happiness at Work” report published by happiness.me. The majority of the employees experience low levels of happiness at work. Workplace happiness is a combination of both psychological factors and workplace-specific factors.

More men are happy at their workplaces than women. Only 37% of women feel happy at their workplaces.

Because of Covid19, and remote working options, it seems employees have adjusted to the new system of working from home, therefore, 41% prefer working from home, and the rest 59% prefer flexible working as the majority of employees are seeking flexibility to maximise their happiness.

Also, part-time employees are less happy (25%) than those who are employed full-time (44%). Employees who intend to leave their jobs are not unhappy people, but they are particularly unhappy at work.

Sectors like Retail and e-commerce have the highest number of unhappy employees, while the healthcare sector has the happiest employees. 57% people in Media & Entertainment sector are unhappy.

Women are the happiest in the Edu and Tech sector, whereas the percentage of men are the happiest in the Automobile sector.

65% of the people reported high levels of general well-being suggesting that more employees are happy in general as compared to being happy at the workplace.

The report also guides about creating a happier work culture, introducing more flexible work models, encouraging autonomy, establishing strong boundaries between the personal and professional, decreasing turnover through instituting people-centric practices, and paying attention to the individual needs of the employees are some of the points mentioned in the report.

1,360 Indian employees were surveyed on different factors and conditions such as general well-being, mental health, stress, work-life balance, turnover intent, autonomy, belongingness, and innovation at work.