1. Assorted Berries
the healthiest desserts is assorted mixed berries—blueberries, blackberries, raspberries, and strawberries," says Lisa Young, PhD, RDN is author of Finally Full, Finally Slim. "These are super nutritious and contain antioxidants, anthocyanins, and vitamin C. 

2. Black Bean Brownies
"One of the most popular desserts in our community cooking classes is black bean brownies," says Carmen Berry, MPH, RD, LD. "Brownies made with black beans are a clever way to sneak in some healthy fiber and plant-based protein all while providing a delicious dessert! You can't even taste or see the beans in the recipe. For an easy two ingredient recipe, simply blend an entire can of no-salt-added black beans in a blender or food processor. 

3. Raspberry Thyme Granita
"If you're wanting to indulge in a healthy, dairy-free light frozen treat, this easy Raspberry Thyme Granita is for you," "Similar to sorbet, granita is a super refreshing, slushy Italian ice dessert requiring no fancy equipment like an ice cream maker. Whether you use raspberries, watermelon, blackberries, or even strawberries, this nonfat and zero sodium dessert is a good source of vitamin C and fiber, and a perfect alternative to overly rich, sugary desserts loaded with calories and too much fat."

4. Oranges & Vanilla Yogurt (or Ice Cream!)
"I find that simple desserts are often the best ones. I like to pair in-season California oranges, like Cara Cara and Navels with vanilla yogurt or ice cream," says Frances Largeman-Roth, RDN and author of Smoothies & Juices: Prevention Healing Kitchen. "Each orange provides 70 to 100% of the daily recommended value of vitamin C. If I have time I'll supreme the oranges and if I'm in a hurry I'll just slice them into rounds and use them to top the yogurt. 

5. Dark Chocolate Avocado Truffles
go-to healthiest desserts is dark chocolate avocado truffles," says Mackenzie Burgess, RDN and recipe developer at Cheerful Choices. "Simply mash together avocados and melted chocolate. Then, roll in any toppings you like such as shredded coconut, cocoa powder, or chopped nuts. The heart-healthy unsaturated fats from the avocado makes it a great alternative to traditional heavy cream found in truffles."