God, the Creator, has outlined His vision for marriage as a lifelong partnership. When we deviate from His plan, the consequences are disastrous on many levels.

Unfortunately, many Christians have no problem with divorce. Marriage and divorce are, nevertheless, clearly addressed in the Bible.

Marriage is the first institution created by God. Through his prophets, God declared that marriage is sacred, He hates divorce and marriage is meant to create children of good character. (Malachi 2:13-16)

Jesus underscored the importance and sacredness of lifelong marriage in His own teachings. (Matthew 19:6.)

The apostle Paul further taught that the marital relationship is to be an ongoing demonstration of the sacrificial love that Christ showed His church. ( Ephesians 5:21-33.)

—You flood the Lord’s altar with tears. You weep and wail because he no longer pays attention to your offerings or accepts them with pleasure from your hands. You ask, “Why?” It is because the Lord is acting as the witness between you and the wife of your youth, because you have broken faith with her, though she is your partner, the wife of your marriage covenant. Has not the Lord made them one? In flesh and spirit they are His. And why one? Because He was seeking godly offspring. So guard yourself in your spirit, and do not break faith with the wife of your youth. “I hate divorce,” says the LORD God of Israel.

 Matthew 19:3-6 (NIV) says, “Some Pharisees came to Him to test Him. They asked, ‘Is it lawful for a man to divorce his wife for any and every reason?'”

“Haven’t you read,” He replied, “that at the beginning the Creator ‘made them male and female,’ and said, ‘For this reason a man will leave his father and mother and be united to his wife, and the two will become one flesh”? So they are no longer two, but one. Therefore what God has joined together, let man not separate.”

I’ve seen many people going through divorce, I understand why God says, “I hate [it]!” Divorce is the tearing apart of the foundation of all stable societies — the family.