By Srinand Jha

New Delhi: While Maharashtra's MVA government has collapsed, BJP strategists have apparently trained their guns at the JMM-Congress-RJD government of Jharkhand.

With eleven Chief Ministers and three spells of President's Rule since the state's formation in 2000, Jharkhand has had a pride of place amongst India's most politically unstable states. 

Since being elected to power in 2019, the Hemant Soren government has also been battling one crisis after another. Serious graft charges have been levelled against the chief minister and his family members. In view of a pending case seeking Soren's disqualification as a legislator in an "office for profit" case, hectic jockeying and lobbying has been happening within the JMM, as also amongst the coalition partners. 

In past months, it has not been all hunky-dory between the Congress and the JMM, particularly after Soren turned down the Congress request for allowing the party to contest the Rajya Sabha vacancy from the state. Instead, the JMM fielded its own candidate in Mahua Maji. The point is this: The circumstances are just right for the BJP strategists to move in. 

The BJP game plan
 
In the 81-member Jharkhand Assembly, the JMM has 30 MLAs against 17 of the Congress and one each of the RJD, NCP and the CPI(ML). 

The BJP has 26 MLAs and the total NDA strength is 30. The saffron party was virtually wiped out of the state's tribal belt - winning just two of the 28 seats in the region. 

Therefore, the saffron party has been attempting to politically claw back in a state that sends 14 members to the Lok Sabha - bigger numbers as compared to states like Haryana or Punjab. 

Until last year, BJP interlocutors had been in touch with 10 of the possible turncoats in the Congress legislator party; while the rebel camp requires a strength of 12 MLAs to override the provisions of the anti-defection law. 

A split in the JMM camp can also not be ruled out, given the simmering resentment against the chief minister and family members. 

Read the full story here:- https://www.newsdrum.in/analysis/mission-lotus-jharkhand-under-bjps-scanner-52699.html