The Telegraph reported yesterday that the club were keen on a move for Gnabry, having seemingly missed out on any deal for Raphinha whose deal they hijacked from Arsenal just for Barcelona to hijack it from Chelsea. It still looks very weird how Barcelona would be able to sign Raphinha for 65 million and not selling Frenkie de Jong, who is set for a 20% wage rise and also owed 17 million in prior wages.
 
After missing out on signing the Leeds man, Chelsea moved their interest towards Rafael Leao and former Arsenal player Serge Gnabry. But, a move for the Portuguese player may be unlikely since AC Milan are not keen to sell him this summer unless they receive an outrageous bid for him. So, that brings Chelsea to the Bayern superstar. The Bayern man fits the bill perfectly, with his direct attacking style exactly what the Blues were looking for in a potential Raphinha signing. The problem for Chelsea is that these links have sparked claims in Germany that Gnabry would never join Chelsea. Gnabry broke through at Arsenal, and apparently still feels a huge amount of loyalty to the Gunners. Indeed, Sky Germany journalist Florian Plettenberg says that the German forward would not play for any of Arsenal’s north London rivals recently. Gnabry had spent three years with the Gunners before leaving for the Bundesliga in 2016. His time in his home country has seen his game completely develop, with his performances now seeing him labelled as ‘World-class’. As well as at club level, the 26-year-old has excelled at international level, scoring 20 goals in just 34 appearances, whilst also competing with current Blues Kai Havertz and Timo Werner in a strong attacking force. His ability to play anywhere along the frontline makes him the perfect signing for Tuchel when it comes to the final acquisition for Chelsea’s attack. However, with the potential rejection the club have already had in their first window under Todd Boehly, it may be wise to not enter negotiations for a player who has already said he doesn’t want to join, in order to not further destroy supporters’ faith.