We all have things we don't want to do but feel compelled to do. Working out, cleaning the house, and paying the bills are just a few of the things that most of us despise doing, despite the fact that we know they are necessary.

It's difficult to force oneself to do something you don't want to do or to keep continuing on a task you don't want to accomplish.
When we give up on our goals, such as quitting the gym, or avoid doing something on a regular basis, such as cleaning the house, we can blame ourselves for lacking the mental strength to endure.
However, you don't require willpower to complete disagreeable jobs. Instead, there are techniques you can do to make an unpleasant situation feel more bearable. After that, completing it doesn't seem that bad.

This is when the practice of temptation bundling comes into play. It's a scientifically validated method for getting people to complete those unpleasant jobs .


And the best part is that if you use this method on a regular basis, you can find yourself looking forward to performing activities you generally dislike.

How to Put Your Temptation Bundle Together
You can increase your willpower and figure out your personal temptation bundling method with a simple activity.

You'll make a two-column list like this:

List the pleasures you appreciate and the temptations you desire to pursue in column one.
In column two, list the chores and behaviors you should be performing but are putting off.
Take your time and make a list of as many behaviors as you can. Then look through your list to see if you can connect one of your "desire" behaviors to something you "should" be doing.

The following are a few examples of temptation bundling:

While exercising, only listen to audiobooks or podcasts that you enjoy.
Only get a pedicure if you're catching up on work emails that are past due.
While ironing or doing domestic tasks, only watch your favorite show.
When you have a monthly meeting with a troublesome colleague, only dine at your favorite restaurant.