A Strategy to Deter Terrorism continues.... 

A nation living on a self-denial mode can never defeat gun culture. “Band-aid” prescriptions and similar analyses are of no use unless the real spirit of the nation is recognized and nourished.

It is also a ridiculous idea that terrorists cannot be deterred because they are irrational, willing to die, and have no “return address.” Our inference here is that the terrorist master-minds have political goals and a method in their madness. An effective strategy to deter terrorism is, therefore, to defeat those political goals and to rubbish them by counter-terrorist action. What that is for India, we shall explore below. 

A Strategy of Deterrence Against Terrorism

Applying these principles, I advocate the following strategy to negate the political goals of Islamic terrorism in India, and thus deter these terrorists from engaging in violent behaviour. What are these political goals that have to be frustrated for the terrorists? Below I list a few:

Terrorist Goal #1: Overawe India on Kashmir by incessant terrorist violence and killings, to agree to part with that state. 

Counter-Strategy: Removed Article 370 by a Presidential Notification in 2019, but the Government is yet to resettle one million ex-servicemen in the Valley to maintain Hindu Muslim peace and unity to enable the Kashmiri Hindus and Sikhs to return to their homes in the Kashmir Valley. For this it is essential to create closed Kashmiri conclaves for the Hindu Pandit and Sikh communities of 500,000 who are presently displaced or as refugees elsewhere. If Islamic terrorists continue to come across the Line of Control in Kashmir and create disorder and murder, then India must search for an opportunity to take over PoK. If Pakistan either fails to block, or worse continues to back terrorists, then assist the Balochis and Sindhis to struggle for independence. The Balochis were anyway never legally merged into Pakistan. It was a conspiracy of silence on the part of Congress leadership that Balochistan is today a part of Pakistan. 

In 1893, the Afghan and British governments had agreed to demarcate a 2,500 kilometer long border to divide British India from Afghanistan. 

To be continued....