Anshuman Agarwal, Ruchi Kirtani, Galya Fernandes and Aaron Farias won double crowns each, at the All Goa Major Ranking Table Tennis Tournament organised by BPS Club under aegis of Goa Table Tennis Association, at Margao.  12 year old Ruchi  cruised to a comfortable 3 – 0 win over  Pradnya Caro to win the Girls U-13 title and thereafter  the Ladies singles title in an exciting 3-2 win over Anushri Naik, being one of the youngest to achieve such a feat.

Aaron Farias emerged winner in Boys U15 and U17 categories. In U15, Aaron was made to sweat hard by Akshan Lawande before prevailing to a 3-2 win while the U17 category was a much easier contest for the left handed Aaron, who raced to a comfortable 3-0 win over former India Silver medallist Shantesh Mapshekar.

Anshuman Agarwal expectedly won the Junior Boys (U19) and Men’s singles titles in emphatic style. In Boys U19 finals,  came all guns blazing to register a facile 3 – 0 win over Akshan Lawande.  Anshuman was virtually unstoppable, winning the finals to emerge Men’s singles champion.

Ishita Colaso and Chandan Caro won the Girls and Boys Under 11 titles respectively with Vaishnav Singh and Dhruva Kamat emerging as runners up while Atharv Dhulapkar triumphed in Boys U13 category defeating Chandan Caro 3-0. The Girls U-15 finals was a battle between the sisters with Galya Fernandes cruising past Leoma Fernandes to win by 3-0. Leoma came back strongly, overcoming Urvi Surlekar with a 3-2 margin to win the Girls U-17 title. Galya bagged her second title, defeating Samaira Soares 3-1 in the Girls Under 19 finals.


Following players emerged in third place: Sheniz Souza and Vaishnavi Singh (U11 Girls); Neeza Kamat and Shreya Phadte (U13 Girls); Samaira Soares and Riya Gopi (U15 Girls); Galya Fernandes and Samaira Soares (U17 Girls); Anushri Naik and Urvi Surlakar (U19 Girls); Prutha Parrikar and Urvi Surlakar (Ladies); Chinmay Bhakre and Yug Prabhu(U11 Boys); Rishan Shaikh and Dhruva Kamat (U13 Boys); Chandan Caro and Siddhant Parsekar (U15 Boys); Azriel Fernandes and Akshan Lawande (U17 Boys); Aaron Farias and Amogh Bawachikar (U19 Boys); Aaron Farias and Ved Sardesai (Men’s)