The tenth gameweek of the English Premier League will see Nottingham Forest locking horns with Wolverhampton Wanderers on Saturday. Wolverhampton Wanderers will host Nottingham Forest at Molineux Stadium. Wolverhampton Wanderers are in the 18th place whereas Nottingham Forest are in the 19th place. 
Wolverhampton Wanderers registered a 3-0 loss against Chelsea in their previous game. The team struggled to get themselves out of their own half let alone taking the shots against Chelsea. They have just six points from nine games and stare at relegation. 
Nottingham Forest are the newly promoted side but have never shown intent to stay in the English top-flight. They drew their previous game against Aston Villa to secure a point and get above Leicester City on the points table. 
Wolverhampton Wanderers vs Nottingham Forest Match Details
 Match:Wolverhampton Wanderers vs Nottingham Forest 
Date and Time: 15th October, 7:30 PM IST
Venue: Molineux Stadium
Wolverhampton Wanderers vs Nottingham Forest Probable Playing XI
Wolverhampton Wanderers:  Jose Sa; Jonny, James Collins, Max Kilman, Rayan Ait-Nouri; Ruben Neves, Hwang Hee-chan, Joao Moutinho; Kieran Gibbs-White, Daniel Podence, Pedro Neto
Nottingham Forest: Dean Henderson; Neco Williams, Steve Cook, Scott McKenna, Lodi; Orel Mangala, Remo Freuler; Brennan Johnson, Morgan Gibbs-White, Emmanuel Dennis; Taiwo Awoniyi
Wolverhampton Wanderers vs Nottingham Forest Probable Winners
Wolverhampton Wanderers have not enjoyed the season so far and have got their manager replaced after seven games. However, the game against Nottingham Forest can serve as a game changer for Wolverhampton Wanderers. We expect Wolves to register a comprehensive win over the newly promoted side. 
Predictions: Wolverhampton Wanderers 3-0 Nottingham Forest
Wolverhampton Wanderers vs Nottingham Forest Live Stream
 
The Wolverhampton Wanderers vs Nottingham Forest game is available on the Disney+Hotstar application and Star Sports Network. Sky Sports Network will telecast the game for the residents in the UK. 