In Trump's bid to change and restructure the Republican party, the state of Georgia is key.  Trump has been endorsing the candidates that he favors and has been involved in trying to influence different electoral races Georgia. Georgia had been a Republican stronghold from 1972 through 2016. However, the state has become increasingly competitive and in 2020, Democrat Joe Biden won by 0.2% over Donald Trump. It was the narrowest margin of victory in the country that year. Trump has been obsessed over the state of Georgia ever since he became the first Republican presidential nominee to lose the state in over 28 years. This once Republican stronghold and a so called 'Red State' has in recent elections become a swing state. Georgia isn't just going to be a must watch state in the 2022 elections but it'll also be in the center of the US politics in the 2024 presidential elections and the 2028 one as well. 

Trump has appointed former Senator David Perdue to run against Brian Kemp in his attempts to influence the governer elections taking place in the state. Kemp had not backed the former President in his claims of the 2020 election being stolen and analysts are seeing it as Trump's vengeance for that particular event. If the candidates being backed up by Trump win, it'll be a strong indicator of the state's choices and will certainly help Trump become a favorite in the upcoming 2024 presidential elections and show the grip he possesses on the Republican Party. The slim margin of 0.2%, by which the the Democrats were victorous in 2020 shows that Georgia is a state which could decide the outcome of the whole election. Even when Trump won in 2016, he only did so by a margin of 5% showing the competitiveness in the state. Georgia’s has sixteen electors, more than all but seven other states. That's why Trump is trying his level best to mobilise the voters behind the politicians  of his choice, who could play crucial roles in the future elections in which he will be a candidate.