Barcelona are known for their La Masia academy, where many world-class players have come through and made their identity in Europe. Barcelona has produced more world-class players than they have signed. La Masisi is the most promising academy, where many young talents have been incubated.
The club has seen players become the most admired and pursued. Barcelona will always be home to many decorated players, and their foreign players have previously represented this club. In the following article, we rank the top ten best defenders in Barcelona history.

10 Michael Reiziger
Reiziger, the most capped Dutchman in Barcelona history, joined the club from Milan and quickly became the first-choice defender; he was one of the best in the business and led the club to two league titles. Reiziger played 253 games for Barcelona during his seven-year tenure before retiring from football.
9 Clément Lenglet
Lenglet's time at Barcelona was not without criticism, but he was one of the most important players when the club was in disarray. The club did not have great defenders at the time, but the Frenchman made strides on numerous occasions and was a key defender alongside Pique. He appeared in 160 games before being loaned out to Tottenham.


8 Sergio Roberto
Roberto is a Barcelona player who came through the La Masia academy and has been with the club since 2010. Roberto, who plays as a right-back but can also play in midfield, embodies great versatility, combined with his pace, strength, rigorous work rate, and accurate passing.
Roberto has appeared in 321 games for Barcelona, winning six La Liga titles and two Champions Leagues since his debut in 2010.


7 Eric Abidal
Abidal forced his way out of Lyon to join Barcelona, where he firmly developed himself as one of the club's best left-backs. He missed many games due to health issues, he returned and continued his time at the club. Abidal was a smart player who could play left-back and center-back. His tactical awareness and game reading made him priority player for many managers.
During his five seasons at Barcelona, Abidal won four La Liga titles and two Champions Leagues while playing 193 games.
