In late 2011, Saifullah Mohammad Zahed was working as an interpreter for Canadian troops in Afghanistan's Kandahar province when he received a letter from the Taliban.
"They said they knew I was working for 'infidels' and told me to stop," he remembers. "They said they would kill me and my family if I didn't."
Soon after, Mr Zahed was able to move to Canada after six years working with Canadian and Nato forces in Kandahar, a province considered to be the birthplace of the Taliban.
It wasn't an idle threat.

My dad was shot and killed by the Taliban," he told the BBC from his home in Calgary. "Since then, my family has been moving around, going from province to province. We've all been Taliban targets for a long time."
Mr Zahed is one of hundreds of Afghans who worked for Canadian forces as interpreters and in other jobs. Many are hoping to get their families out of Afghanistan - where they are at risk of retribution from the victorious Taliban - and bring them to Canada.
After the fall of Kabul last August, Canada's federal government vowed to welcome as many as 40,000 refugees and vulnerable Afghans to the country. As of 21 April, more than 11,300 Afghans had arrived in Canada.
As part of that effort, the government in November announced a pathway to permanent residency for extended family members of Afghan interpreters already in Canada.
But critics of the extended family programme have accused the government of burdening family members with unreasonable and often redundant bureaucratic hurdles - including documentation and biometrics - that result in delays.
Several Afghan interpreters in Canada described dozens of pages worth of necessary documents and few, if any, possibilities of family members leaving Afghanistan to complete the required steps in safety.
To date, not a single Afghan has made it to Canada through that programme.
Jenny Kwan is the opposition New Democratic Party's immigration critic, and has been advocating on behalf of at least 300 Afghan families - about 5,000 people in total.