Darwin Gabriel Núñez Ribeiro Is an Uruguayan Professional, who plays for Primera Division club Benfica, one of the powerhouse clubs in the country.


Having come through Peñarol's youth academy, he was promoted to the first team in 2017. In 2019, he joined Almeria in the Spanish Segunda division. Benfica got their man for €24 million in 2020. He was one of the most expensive signings in Portuguese football history.

He is mostly left attacking midfielder, but this season he has been deployed as a center-forward. In the 50 matches he played, he has been mostly deployed as a center forward.


Last year, when he joined Benfica he scored 6 goals in 29 matches. This season he has taken the Primeira Liga by storm, by scoring a whopping 25 goals in 25 matches. 
From the above picture, we can see that he ranks head and shoulders above other advanced midfielders, in terms of goal taken in total shots which he took.

Looking at his passing stats, we can see that he has done most of his best work when drifting to the left side. We can see that he has received progressive passes mostly in the left-wing
Looking at his touches, again he has most of the touches in the left-wing and that can’t be classified as a left-winger movement, nor are they centrally enough to confirm, that he is a proper center-forward.

The Uruguayan can’t just stop scoring. At the rate at which he is scoring, he has overtaken Juventus player Dusan Vlahovic, and Real Madrid or Manchester City-bound Erling Haaland. 


In the 35 matches that he has played, he scored a whopping 31 goals. With a host of clubs like Manchester United, Atletico Madrid, Chelsea, and Arsenal after the signing of the £64 million man, we could see his price soar up in the summer especially if he continues this rich vein of form. 


Manchester United incoming manager Erik Ten Hag will be looking to go for him or Antony or Christopher Nkunku. Nunez could soon turn out to be the hottest number 9 in Europe if he continues his hot run of form