Pornography raises the rate of adultery by 300 percent. In 56% of divorces, one of the parties has an excessive interest in pornography. The average age at which a youngster is first exposed to porn is 4.11, and 94% of children will have seen it by the age of 14. It is widespread in today's world, fueling passion, adultery, rape, and homosexuality. The enemy has perverted one of God's most magnificent blessings, sex, into something he doesn't want us to have.

—Flee from sexual immorality. Every other sin a person commits is outside the body, but the sexually immoral person sins against his own body. Or do you not know that your body is a temple of the Holy Spirit within you, whom you have from God? You are not your own, for you were bought with a price. So glorify God in your body (1 Corinthians 6:18-20).

The Bible repeatedly emphasises the need of avoiding sexual immorality because it has a long-term impact. The images stick with us, forming soul links, altering our perceptions of sex and how we treat women, and rewiring our brains.

Pornography is more addictive than any substance because the more we see, the more we crave. Pornography leads a person farther and deeper into hard-core sexual addictions and unholy cravings, much as a drug user must take higher quantities of drugs or more stronger drugs to attain the same "high."

Pornography is both addicting and damaging (1 Corinthians 6:12; 2 Peter 2:19). (Proverbs 6:25-28; Ezekiel 20:30; Ephesians 4:19). God finds the act of lusting after other people, which is the basis of pornography, offensive (Matthew 5:28). It becomes more provocative, and it becomes increasingly difficult to fulfil. Another bodily result is that it makes the porn watcher crave something to do. He eventually develops a need for more than simply pornography. It results in a double life. The addicted person has a public existence, but he also has a dark secret that he doesn't want anyone to know about. That secret life leads to other sins like lies in order to conceal it, as well as emotions of guilt and shame.