The United States administration formally declared that Myanmar’s military junta has committed genocide against the country’s Rohingya minority. More than 6,000 Rohingyas were massacred by the military in 2017 and thousands were displaced.

After having seen the evidence of the massacre at the US Holocaust Memorial Museum in Washington DC, the US Secretary of State Antony Blinken said on Monday that the attacks were meant to wipe out the Rohingyas through mass murder and arson. The decision was based on a review of documents of the massacre gathered by human rights organisations and independent research by the US. Mr Blinken announced $1 million for further investigation of the atrocities. The announcement is expected to be followed with sanctions and penalties against the military-led government.

Four years ago, the US State Department started the process of investigation of the military’s brutal attacks against the Rohingyas. But when the report arrived, the then secretary of state Mike Pompeo concluded the military’s actions as “ethnic cleansing”. They refrained from using the term “genocide” perhaps to shield the then fledgling democracy — at that time Myanmar had an electoral democracy under Aung San Suu Kyi — and maintain geopolitical balance with China, the country’s neighbour as well as the junta’s supporters.  

Although Suu Kyi had then defended the military’s actions and overlooked minority oppression to keep in tune with Myanmar’s majority views, the junta overthrew her government in a coup in February 2021. She remains jailed and is being tried on corruption charges.

Meanwhile, Myanmar’s majority opinion has softened towards the Rohingyas after the junta's violent crackdown on civilians that killed and detained thousands.

In the past two years, things have changed drastically. The rivalry between US and China has worsened and now, junta’s strongest supporter Russia – that provides them with arms and financial aid – is reviled by the US and its allies over the Ukraine war. Mr Blinken stressed the fact that the US stands not just with the people of Ukraine, but also with “people suffering atrocities in other places” across the world.    

READ MORE:

 https://www.theatlantic.com/international/archive/2022/03/blinken-myanmar-genocide-rohingya-muslims/627124/

https://www.nytimes.com/2022/03/21/us/politics/myanmar-genocide-biden.html

https://www.bbc.com/news/world-asia-60820215