In Queens drug dealing circles, life imitates HBO.

Accused marijuana seller Tyreik Jackson, charged with shooting and wounding a man in 2020 to protect his Astoria turf, goes by the name “Marlo” in the streets in homage to the high-level Baltimore drug kingpin in the hit show “The Wire,” federal prosecutors say.

“The victim knew the defendant by his street name, ‘Marlo,’ derived from the fictional character Marlo Stanfield... a character who sold drugs on behalf of a narcotics organization,” Assistant U.S. Attorney Emily Dean say in court papers filed Monday in Brooklyn Federal Court.

Marlo ran the eponymous Stanfield Organization in the HBO series. The young West Baltimore drug dealer competed with the Barksdale organization but eventually rose up to become the biggest narcotics trafficker in the city, using violence to capture corners across the city.

Tyreik Jackson’s alleged crime has all the makings of a plot from the five-season show.

Jackson is a member of the 8th Street Organization, an Astoria-based drug dealing crew that controlled marijuana sales around Astoria Boulevard and 8th St., according to prosecutors.

His victim has known Jackson for about 15 years and purchased drugs from him on multiple occasions, the feds claim.

But the victim, who is anonymous in court papers, made the dangerous decision in February 2020 to begin selling marijuana himself in 8th Street Organization territory.

A few members of the 8th Street Organization approached the victim and told him to stop selling pot in their area or he’d have a problem, according to court papers.

Soon after, the victim was standing near 8th Street and Astoria Boulevard and saw the leader of the drug trafficking organization, known only as Individual 1, standing across the street staring at him, the feds said.

In September 2020, the victim was at the Astoria Houses when he was warned by another man that he “should not be seen in the area due to his ongoing problem with the 8th Street Organization,” prosecutors wrote.

The victim left town for a week and returned briefly to pick up some belongings.