‌Motivated by a racist far-right theory an 18-year-old suspect shot and killed 10 people at a supermarket in a prime area where a black community lived. What does it imply about the racism rooted and propagated in mainstream U.S. politics?

Before travelling to New York, the alleged gunman, Payton S. Gendron, is speculated to have posted a 180-page document on the internet fixated on the belief of "replacement theory," according to authorities.

"Great Replacement theory is the notion that people from minority populations, both here and in Europe, are replacing the existing white, largely Christian [population]," said Larry Rosenthal, chair and lead researcher of the Berkeley Center for Right-Wing Studies.
This theory has spurred violence among the far-right white nationalists which motivated mass killings such as the 2015 Charleston church shooting, the 2018 Pittsburgh Tree of Life synagogue shooting, the 2019 shooting at a Walmart in El Paso and the 2019 Christchurch mosque shootings in New Zealand -- incidents that appear to have impacted the alleged Buffalo gunman.

Shockingly, one in three American adults think in elements of "replacement theory" and 42% of Republicans believe in the theory, according to a poll.

The replacement theory is an old idea, the idea is just the fear and ingrained racial superiority the white have that makes them extremely hostile towards other races. This power shift is almost impossible for the extreme racist to accept and they sought a licence, hate crimes and killings.

According to some experts, the  rise of former President Donald Trump in recent years propelled the theory into mainstream U.S. politics, 

In his 2015 campaign announcement, Trump called Mexicans "rapists" and said immigrants were bringing crime and drugs across the border.

Throughout his presidency, Trump repeatedly used the word "invasion" to interpret undocumented immigrants who are coming to the United States, used derogatory language to describe immigrants from Africa and Haiti and suggested that the U.S. should accept immigrants from countries like Norway, a largely white population.

Can we ignore this senselessness former president is and was promoted throughout the years? Does his privilege overshadow his statements?