Rural Haryana’s High-Five: Landless, small farmers’ daughters make it to U-17 FIFA World Cup squad 
Five girls – Naketa, Kajal, Neha, Varshika and Shailja – from three villages – Sadalpur, Mangali and Alakhpura – of Haryana have made it to the 21-member Indian squad for the forthcoming Women’s U-17 FIFA World Cup.
Being the host nation, India has got a direct entry in the mega event and it will be held from October 11-30.
All the girls hail from humble backgrounds and are the daughters of either landless or small farmers.
Naketa, who hails from Hisar’s Sadalpur village, is a trainee of Vinod Football Club, Chuli Bagrian.
She was also a probable of earlier scheduled U-17 World Cup, which was to be held last year, but due to pandemic it was cancelled.  
“I am very happy for my daughter making it to the World Cup squad. I want her to make a name in the football field,” says Naketa’s mother Salochana, 42, who works as a farm hand in their family’s five acres of land, owned by three brothers. “Naketa’s selection in the U-17 World Cup is a big boost for all the trainees of our academy. She got inspired from her seniors, who had represented India earlier, and now she is going to be a motivation for the upcoming football players of the area,” says coach Vinod, who runs a football academy in village Chuli Bagrian.  
Kajal and Neha are from Mangali village in Hisar and are the products of the Mangali Football Academy.
“Both these girls are from a very normal family and their families don’t have any agricultural land. Their parents work on someone’s farms,” says coach Narinder of Mangali Football Academy.
“As we have limited means, so initially, because of the expense related to shoes and kit, I was against Kajal pursuing the sport. But her elder sister and coach persuaded me to support her and today, she has made the entire village proud,” says Rani.   
Varshika and Shailja are from Bhiwani’s Alakhpura village and are from farming families.
Apart from Haryana, Manipur contributed seven, Jharkhand five, Delhi, Maharashtra and Odisha contributed a girl each in the Indian team.