The ongoing Santosh Trophy in Kerala’s Malappuram is witnessing a kind of crowd frenzy that clearly underlines the craze for football in India despite the country’s dismal show at the international level. At the same time, it is yet another indication how popular the national championships for the Santosh Trophy still is in India. Having started in 1941, the inter-state championships was once considered the country’s top tournament before the All-India Football Federation (AIFF) started making conscious efforts to undermine its importance. 
The efforts to reduce the Santosh Trophy into a grade B tournament began since the National Football League was (renamed I-League since 2006) introduced in the 1996-97 season. The all-India club league was the brainchild of the federation after being advised by the Asian Football Confederation (AFC) and world body FIFA. No doubt it was a smart move, but the fragile club structure of India failed to lift the popularity of the national league beyond a certain level. On the other hand, the Santosh Trophy was pushed to the background, the rest of the tournaments were given a step-motherly treatment. It helped none. The pool of players in India at the top tier got smaller and smaller.
Then came the franchise league, which is owned by federation’s marketing partners. It further narrowed down the parent body’s options; football in India became a one-way traffic – the sole purpose was to ensure the success of a particular tournament. Given the current trend of Indian football, the crowd presence in Santosh Trophy is a mighty slap on the face of those who run the game in India. Thousands of football lovers are thronging the ground every day ignoring the heat. True, the home team matches attract bigger crowd, but that always happen wherever the tournament is held. The Santosh Trophy proved one thing beyond doubt – people in India are eager and ready to watch domestic football, provided they are served the right stuff. They have no time for artificial things, however attractive it outwardly may look like.