Rotana, one of the leading hotel management companies in the region with over 100 properties across the Middle East, Africa, Eastern Europe and Türkiye, has announced the opening date of Bin Al Sheikh Residences by Rotana in October 2022 and Riviera Rayhaan by Rotana in November 2022.
As the group further cements its footprint in the region, Qatar remains a key market as the country gets ready to welcome millions of visitors for the FIFA World Cup 2022.
Guy Hutchinson, President & CEO of Rotana, said: “The region is buoyant as countries gear up to host one of the world’s largest events. The FIFA World Cup 2022 will bring an incredible influx of travellers to Qatar and a knock-on effect will also be felt in neighbouring countries like the UAE. As we continue expanding, we look forward to diversifying our offerings in the country and across the region to answer to higher demand.”
Located in the heart of Doha, Bin Al Sheikh Residences by Rotana is an easily recognisable new landmark, featuring luxury interior design and spacious apartments with spectacular views of the city. Set to open in October 2022, Bin Al Sheikh Residences by Rotana is the perfect home away from home for residents looking for the ultimate comfort matched with refined living.
Offering fully-furnished residences, Bin Al Sheikh Residences by Rotana boasts 158 studios, 278 one-bedroom, 62 two-bedroom apartments, and five three-bedroom penthouses.
All apartments ensure the highest level of comfort with a fully-equipped kitchen, washer and dryer, and a dishwasher in every one-, two- and three-bedroom apartment. Guests are invited to experience the authentic part of the city while enjoying an array of top-class services and amenities including an outdoor swimming pool, sports and wellness facilities, kids’ play area, an international outlet of retail brands and ample parking space.
Set to usher a new level of hospitality, Riviera Rayhaan by Rotana will open its doors in November 2022. Located on Salwa Road in Doha, the four-star property features 185 rooms and suites, including 129 standard rooms and 56 suites comprising Junior suites, one-bedroom and two-bedroom suites. 