Delia Kinzinger (Didi Contractor) was born in the year 1929 in Minneapolis, US and was brought up in New Mexico and Texas. The only child of her German father and American mother, at an age of 11   started exploring exhibitions of Frank Lloyd Wright.along with her parents which created an impression in her mind to get into the field of architecture. She was first trained in art by her father and Hans Hoffman(a German born American Painter) in New York and then studied arts in the University of Colorado Boulder . During her studies in university in 1951 she fell in love with an Indian Gujrati student Ramji Narayan.The duo got married and set up their life in Nasik .In 1960 they shifted to Mumbai. They raised a family and Didi immersed herself in her new home and its cultural patterns, turning her training in art to design and architecture. Didi’s first house near Juhu beach was a structure of lime mortar with thatch over the roof, large doors and windows. It won the admiration of her neighbour, actor Prithviraj Kapoor. She designed a cottage for the actor. Circumstances changed and she had to part with her husband. In 1970 contractor made her way towards Sidhbari, place in the foot hills of Dharamshala in Himachal Pradesh where she gave a shape to her own eco friendly house with sources like mud, slate, bamboo and stone. Her work was noticed by locals and she started getting contracts. She used to personally visit and work on the sites with childhood enthusiasm.She had a sensitivity of crafting buildings showcase architecture and design at its purest.“Didi” has designed and built at least 15 plus houses in and around Dharamshala and some institutions like Nishtha Rural Health, Education and Environment Centre ,Dharmalaya Centre for Compassionate Living at Bir, Sambhaavnaa Institute of Public Policy and Politics at Kandwari which are a perfect example of sustainable structure. Winner of WADe Asia Life Time Achievement award (2017)and Nari Shakti Puraskar (2018) took her last breath at the age of 90 in the year 2021.Didi an exemplary to Indian architecture.

 