Oppression based on gender, caste, race and other forms of divisions in society has been prevalent since the beginning of time and it seems like a never ending struggle for many individuals. In a study published in 1989, Kimberlé Crenshaw created the word "intersectionality" to assist describe the oppression of African-American women. Intersectionality is currently viewed as "the new caste structure," with nonwhite, non-heterosexual individuals on top. Many conservatives define intersectionality as "you get unique standards, special treatment in the perspective of others because you're a minority." It encourages solipsism on a personal level and social divisiveness. It reflects a type of feminism that "labels an individual." It shows how oppressed they are. It informs them what they are and are not permitted to say or think." Intersectionality is thus "very harmful" or a "victimization conspiracy theory." The issue is that, like liberal or alt-right, "intersectionality" becomes a name that may be "weaponized" in the polarity wars. People have no idea what it means; all they know is that they are "for it" or "against it." 

Individuals and society have been hesitant to embrace intersectionality as a concept and a framework for influencing our work, limiting the potential influence of theory, practice, and action. In truth, everyone has power in some shape or another at some moment. An individual may not always be able to access their power, and accessing this power is especially challenging when other elements of their identities are simultaneously being targeted. However, once they recognise its existence, they may learn to unleash our power when it is required. A man of colour, for example, may face racism, but since he is cisgender, heterosexual, and able-bodied, he also has power and privilege that he may use to effect change. He may use his male privilege to check other men's privilege by mobilising his peers to educate other guys who participate in sexually predatory conduct against women.