Some of us might at least know one of our friends or our family friends who are facing a neurodevelopmental condition of Autism. This condition gives so much of challenges for the individual to cope up in the society. But an interesting study has now almost come to its completion. 

Alpen Ortug, PhD, a postdoctoral research fellow in radiology at Harvard Medical School said that while examining few of the MRI brain scans that were taken at Boston Children's Hospital, they could find differences in the brain structure of children who later developed autism spectrum disorder (ASD). 

Carissa J. Cascio, PhD, an associate professor of psychiatry and behavioral sciences at Vanderbilt University Medical Center in Tennessee shared that    “Autism is defined by social and other behaviors that aren’t measurable in infants, but research shows that infants who will go on to have autism already have different brains. What this study adds is that some of those brain changes may be starting well before birth."


The team looked into 39 MRI brain scans of fetuses that was around 25 weeks during the pregnancy period. From which 9 of the children had initially been diagnosed with ASD later on in life.  

Cascio said to Healthline that “This is exciting because it gives us an idea of very early brain changes that may be present in people on the autism spectrum and localizes them to a brain region that is important for emotional and sensory functions, which we know are impacted by autism." 

The researchers could find that the insular lobe of the brain was larger in children who developed ASD. The insular cortex is the region that controls our motor, sensory processing and social behavior. 

“What is remarkable is that with this exploratory, unbiased approach, the insula was statically significantly larger in ASD subjects compared to all other control groups,” Ortug told Healthline. 

The study is yet to be presented at a conference and is only reaching its final stage as the peer review is not done yet. 

Sources - https://www.healthline.com/health-news/indications-of-autism-may-be-revealed-during-fetal-mri-scans