Introduction: 

Polycystic Ovary Syndrome (PCOS) is a commonly occurring condition among women of reproductive age. PCOS can happen at any time and at any age in women after she hits her puberty. For someone who already has PCOS since puberty, for them the signs and symptoms will show up in their early period cycles only. But that may not be the case for every woman! Other women might get it in their 20s or 30s or even later in their reproductive age. According to Cleveland Clinic, PCOS is very common — up to 15% of women of reproductive age have it. It is said to be one of the most common causes of female infertility.

Signs and symptoms:

Usually the signs and symptoms of PCOS are prominent enough to tell if you have PCOS or not. Doctors typically use a set of criteria to determine PCOS in women, jointly called the Rotterdam Criteria, which states that two of these three conditions should be present:

1) Hyperandrogenism: Increased levels of a male hormone known as androgen obstructs the ovaries from performing the function of ovulation (releasing an egg).  Furthermore, excess production of androgen leads to Hirsutism which causes excess hair growth on face, chin, body, acne and male pattern baldness.

2) Infrequent/irregular periods: Usually women with PCOS experience irregularity in their menstrual cycle. The possible reason behind your missed/skipped periods could be the failure of ovaries to release an egg due to multiple cysts.

3) Polycystic ovaries: Polycystic ovaries are basically ovaries that develop small multiple fluid filled sacs AKA cysts. It is believed that if either one or both ovaries possess cysts, your chances of developing PCOS are potentially high.

Know more:

Apart from the Rotterdam criteria, excess weight gain and hormonal imbalances are other common reasons that can increase the risk of developing PCOS. PCOS is 80% most commonly found in women who are obese or overweight. To inspect the hormone imbalances in women, your doctor would recommend you to take a blood test to measure androgen levels, insulin, cholesterol and triglyceride levels while checking the risk or cause of PCOS.




Sources:
1-https://www.nhs.uk/conditions/polycystic-ovary-syndrome-pcos/

2-https://my.clevelandclinic.org/health/diseases/8316-polycystic-ovary-syndrome-pcos

3-https://perlahealth.com/the-rotterdam-criteria-for-diagnosing-pcos/

4-https://my.clevelandclinic.org/health/diseases/8316-polycystic-ovary-syndrome-pcos#management-and-treatment