China issued a warning for athletes who will be visiting Beijing during next month’s Winter Olympics, if they fail to behave the way the country expects them to do during their stay.

Yang Shu, the deputy director general of the Beijing 2022 international relations department, warned the competitors that any behavior or speeches that go against the Olympic spirit, especially against Chinese laws and regulations, will be punished without any hesitation. He added, while speaking at an event at China’s Washington embassy, that the likely punishment was cancellation of accreditation, if specified rules are broken.

The warning came in the wake of caution by human rights activists that athletes are likely to face an “Orwellian surveillance state” in which moves of many citizens are closely monitored through advanced technology. In case, the athletes raise their voice against torture or human rights violence of the Uyghur minorities in China’s Xinjiang province, they may be penalised. They cited the recent case of the disappearance of Chinese tennis star Peng Shuai to stress what can happen if they are critical of Chinese authorities. In such cases, even the International Olympic Committee (IOC) may not be able to protect the incarcerated athlete.

The Chinese authorities have already asked athletes and other attendees to download a smartphone app (MY2022) which seems to have serious security flaws. CitizenLab, a US interdisciplinary lab, found the app can ban words that are critical of Chinese authorities and can track attendees' health status.  

Even though the Olympic Charter doesn’t allow athletes to make any kind of political, religious or racial propaganda during the competition, last year the rule was relaxed a bit. Now they are allowed to express their opinions on any matters in press meets or interviews, but refrain from doing so during the medal ceremonies or competition.

Some athletes, who know the importance of the Olympics as a key international forum, however, may not comply with the rules and use the event as a platform to raise protests against human rights and other violations in the country.  

READ MORE:  https://www.independent.co.uk/asia/china/beijing-winter-olympics-athletes-protests-b1996188.html

https://www.reuters.com/lifestyle/sports/beijing-2022-official-says-athlete-protests-will-lead-punishment-2022-01-19/

https://www.theguardian.com/sport/2022/jan/18/athletes-warned-speaking-out-china-winter-olympics