A small clinical trial discovered that every single rectal cancer patient who got an experimental treatment saw their disease vanish, in what looks to be a miracle and a "first in history". According to the 'New York Times', 18 patients took a medicine named Dostarlimab for six months in a limited clinical trial done by Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center, and all of them saw their tumours shrink at the end.

Experts stated that the malignancy is undetectable by physical examination, endoscopy, positron emission tomography or PET scans, or MRI scans. This shows that Dostarlimab has the potential to be a 'possible' cancer cure for one of the most lethal tumours.

The medication given, called 'dostarlimab' and sold under the brand name 'Jemperli', is an immunotherapy drug used in the treatment of endometrial cancer, but this was the first clinical investigation of whether it was also effective against rectal cancer tumors.

In an amazing turn of luck, the patients who enrolled in this trial have so far completely avoided both these procedures and their associated side effects.

In the phase 2 study, patients were given dostarlimab every three weeks for six months, with standard chemoradiotherapy and surgery set to follow if tumors returned. They didn't.

After six months of follow-up, all 12 patients in the trial showed a "clinical complete response", with no evidence of tumors to be seen via MRI scans, PET scans, endoscopy, and biopsy, among other tests.

It's early days, and there's still a lot we don't know, but if further research can replicate the bright promise hinted at here, we might be witnessing the development of a new kind of cancer therapy.

If immunotherapy can be a curative treatment for rectal cancer, eligible patients may no longer have to accept functional compromise in order to be cured.

With a promising but unknown future yet, immunotherapy has provided what may be an early glimpse of a revolutionary treatment shift for the world's most notorious ailment.