The German government has appointed Jennifer Morgan, an American, as its new international climate envoy. Morgan is currently the executive director of Greenpeace International. Germany’s foreign minister Annalena Baerbock, from the Green party, announced the appointment introducing Morgan as “the face of Germany’s international climate policy.”

Green party is a constituent of the country’s new coalition government, led by the Social Democrat chancellor Olaf Scholz. Fighting climate change is a key agenda of the coalition. Germany has set a stiff target to make itself carbon free and lead an effort to curb global warming on the international stage.  

Morgan is a US citizen, living in Berlin since 2003. She is fluent in German and has applied for German citizenship. She is the first “special envoy for climate policy”, but will work in the foreign ministry. After she becomes a German citizen, she will become a junior minister.   

Christian Democrats, the opposition, questioned the appointment of a fervent Greenpeace activist in a new post – specially created to accommodate her. It won’t be easy for her to fit into the role of a diplomat overnight. For instance, she is expected to clash with the EU on its decision to consider nuclear and gas energy as green. A majority of German politicians also support the inclusion of gas, except those in the Green party.

Handling the issue of approval of Nord Stream 2 – a Russian gas pipeline beneath the Baltic Sea – is also a key challenge ahead of her. While there is an international pressure to delay its approval due to the camping of Russian troops at the Ukrainian border, many Germans look for Russian gas supply to ease the raging energy crisis in the country. Green activists oppose the project which is likely to pump millions of tons of carbon-dioxide every year into the air.

The country has also started closing down its nuclear power plants—part of another green agenda – only to exacerbate its energy crisis. In sharp contrast, Germany’s neighbour France announced its plan to ramp up nuclear power by building up to 14 new reactors.     

READ MORE: https://www.dw.com/en/greenpeace-head-jennifer-morgan-becomes-germanys-first-climate-envoy/a-60704120

https://edition.cnn.com/2022/02/09/europe/jennifer-morgan-greenpeace-german-climate-envoy-intl/index.html

https://www.nytimes.com/2022/02/09/world/europe/germany-jennifer-morgan-greenpeace.html