It was a proud moment for Goa-based Rina Jain who emerged as the First Runner-up at the Mrs. Cosmos International 2022 Pageant at Orlando, Florida, USA, recently.

For Jain, the stupendous achievement comes on the heels of winning the Mrs. India 2021 - Season 1, Mrs Cosmos India 2021, and Glamorous Eco Warrior by the International Glamour Project titles

“I couldn’t be more proud of my journey as I represented my country at the international platform. I spoke from the heart and was genuine and true to who I am. God has a plan for everyone, and I am super excited to see the path he is leading me,” she said.

For Jain, the journey to the USA and rubbing shoulders with participants from the world over at the international level was an enchanting experience.

“Pageantry is a beautiful journey. We meet participants from across the world. We make memories, a lifetime of friendship, care and share for each other. This experience is phenomenal. I have returned with a full heart, new friends, unforgettable memories and new learnings,” said Jain.

The pageant was held from July 4-9, and consisted of several rounds that included personal interview, swimming costume, national costume, and grand finale round. 

The highlight of her campaign were two of her elegantly designed costumes that drew widespread appreciation. For her national costume round, Jain put on a dazzling show in her in specially designed ‘Yantra Jal Rani’ costume.

Overall, this Indian Cosmos costume is the representation of the power of a modern woman who can carry with grace her humble beginnings and enjoy her presence like a royal, making waves wherever she goes, Jain explained. 

For the grand finale outfit, Jain was draped in a scintillating 'The Snow Angel' costume that made heads turn. 

Jain sealed her moment of glory in the Q&A Round, where she was asked the most important quality for success. “Walt Disney once said, ‘If you can dream it, you can do it’. Success is the answer of hard work, dedication, determination, and what you give in till you achieve your goal,” was Jain’s reply to the judges.