The Congress leadership is likely to accommodate some of the G-23 (group of dissident) leaders in the party, giving them some key organisational responsibilities. 

That a group within the G-23 was upset with former union minister Kapil Sibal for his remarks against the Gandhis became evident after he was forced to cancel the dinner meeting at his residence and shift the venue to veteran Ghulam Nabi Azad's house. 

Many leaders, including former Haryana chief minister Bhupinder Singh Hooda, had expressed reservation to attending the meeting at Sibal's residence and asked Azad to hold it at his house.

Hooda's son Deepender had accompanied Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on many trips to Uttar Pradesh and there was a buzz that he might be appointed the Haryana Congress president very soon. 

Similarly, there were speculation that Azad might be given the charge of Karnataka as general secretary and Anand Sharma might be considered for another term in the Rajya Sabha.

However, there seems to be a big question mark on the possibility of rehabilitation of dissident leaders since last night's meeting. 

Pressure is visibly building up on the Congress leadership to take strict action is Sibal for attacking the Gandhi family in an interview with a newspaper following the party's rout in the assembly elections in five states. 

The voices in favour of action against Sibal have grown since then. 

As a first step, the Chandni Chowk District Congress Committee has passed a resolution to take action against Sibal, accusing him of anti-party activities. Sibal has been a Lok Sabha member from Chandni Chowk for two terms from 2004 to 2014.

Earlier, Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot attacked Sibal, saying he is not a man of "Congress culture" and didn't know "the ABCD of Congress."

"Kapil Sibal isn't a person from Congress culture. He's a renowned advocate who entered Congress. He didn't toil as a worker. Sonia ji and Rahul ji have given him a lot of chances. He does not know the ABCD of Congress, and does not understand the basic spirit of Congress. Congress has made sacrifices for the country before and after independence, Kapil Sibal forgets this," Gehlot said. 

ENDS