Woman’s day-every March 8, media/womens organizations/celebrities even governments seems to enter a race of celebrating woman and womanhood. 
“Achievers “ are honoured, hours of airtime is dedicated to women. This when at the same time somewhere in the world, some woman is getting battered in a toxic marriage, some woman is getting raped. Some woman is getting stalked, unfairly treated at work, paid less wages compared to a male co worker. Judged for the clothes she wears or doesn’t, told who to marry who not to, who to talk who not to. Patronised/gaslighted/mansplained.
So as we gather again to celebrate Woman's day, what are we doing to make the world gender equal. The theme for this years woman’s day is breaking these barriers, breaking the biases. 
We at Pixstory are striving to take baby steps towards the right, towards breaking these barriers believing in the beauty of diversity. We want to hail every woman-Be it some one excelling in her profession, a daily wager whose achievement is to provide two meals for her family, domestic help who not only helps keep u sanitised but struggles to meet your standards of upkeep. Your mother who is the unsung hero struggling hard to manage her home from dawn to dusk. Your grandmother who struggles to remember her name after working all her life to name sure the family makes one.
The working woman who has to juggle between work and home, the actress/the model who has to invest her time and energy to look good. The young hijabi girl who roars like a tigress taking on hundreds of men questioning her choice. The women in Afghanistan fighting for their right to be, the Ukrainian women praying just to see another day, the black women raising voice for equality, the transwomen fighting biases. 
Are these women waiting to be empowered, they are empowered enough. While womens day sounds all politically correct but women don’t need a day to be celebrated and others to hail them. She needs to celebrate her own self on a daily basis. 
Join this conversation and share ur ideas.