The New South Wales government has announced a $376.5 million investment in child development and family support as part of its 2022-23 state budget.

Premier Dominic Perrottet said the "Brighter Beginnings" package will provide all children with a full suite of developmental checks before they start school.

Minister for Education and Early Learning Sarah Mitchell says the program aims to improve behavioural and academic outcomes for children. 

"Almost half of all 4-year-old children do not get their recommended health and development checks, so making these available in every New South Wales early childhood service will open the door to brighter futures for thousands of children," Ms Mitchell said.  

The "Brighter Beginnings" package includes:

$111.2 million to bring health and development checks to all children in New South Wales preschool settings, in partnership with health professionals

$98.7 million to continue and expand the number of Aboriginal Child and Family centres across the state

$70.9 million to expand the transformational "Sustaining NSW Families" clinical nurse home-visiting program 

$57.2 million to develop the clinical interface of the digital baby book

$38.6 million to make pregnancy family conferencing available to more parents across NSW.

Parents who send their children to preschool at privately run long daycare centres will get up to $2,000 off their fees from next year, after a relief payment from the state government.

In the upcoming state budget, the government will spend $1.4 billion over four years, which will go to preschool providers for them to take off annual fees.

This means parents with children, aged 4 and 5, will get up $2,000 off their childcare bill, while parents sending their children to state government-funded community preschools will get up to $4,000 subtracted from their fees.

Education Minister Sarah Mitchell says it is the first time long daycare centres have been included in fee relief and it's in addition to the Commonwealth subsidy.

"It's really about making sure our preschool programs are affordable," she said.

The money is in addition to $5 billion announced on Tuesday to help subsidise extra daycare centres.