There is good new for Indian football, finally. The Supreme Court on Monday terminated the mandate of its Committee of Administrators (CoA) to manage the affairs of the All India Football Federation (AIFF) thus paving the way for lifting the suspension of the Indian football body by FIFA, which came on the night of August 15. Insiders in the AIFF believe the governing body of world football may withdraw the suspension in the next 48 to 72 hours. It means that India, as planned earlier, will host the under-17 women’s football World Cup in the month of October.
While a desperate Government of India, who went all out to save the Under-17 Women’s World Cup, prayed to the Apex Court to make necessary changes in its earlier order to accommodate certain FIFA demands, the Bench said it was modifying its orders while bearing in mind the “unquestioned importance” of having India host the World Cup. “The court is passing this order to ensure that the prestige of the nation in holding the Under 17 Women's World Cup is not affected and to enable players to participate in international events,” Justice DY Chandrachud, heading the Bench, observed orally. 
The order is meant to help the government's efforts to revoke FIFA’s suspension of the AIFF. The world body had derecognised the AIFF citing “third-party interference”. The government had urged the court to scrap its CoA, which was assigned the job to run the AIFF and draft a constitution for it. FIFA had made it clear that it wants an elected body, and not a court-appointed entity like the CoA, to manage AIFF affairs.
Former Indian football team captain Bhaichung Bhutia, represented by advocate Raghenth Basant, said the conduct and tenor of FIFA was “absolutely shocking”. “Least they (FIFA) could do was respect the dignity of the Indian Supreme Court,” Basant said. But Justice Chandrachud said the events which have transpired in the case have not been lost on the Supreme Court. “But now, do we assert our authority at the cost of the tournament to India? Everybody wants the World Cup to be held in India.”