Manchester United midfielder Mason Greenwood has been dropped by sportswear giant Nike a week after the player was arrested on suspicion of rape. 

The 20-year-old English national was charged with sexual assault and making death threats to his longtime girlfriend Harriet Robson, whose video of assault surfaced online and went viral. Greater Manchester Police later released the midfielder on bail. 

In a shocking revelation, Harriet had released videos and photographs of her injuries on Instagram with a caption, "To everyone who wants to know what Mason Greenwood actually does to me."

She also shared audio snippets in which Greenwood was supposedly heard being aggressive and attempted to force himself on her, according to the woman. The photographs, films, and audio recordings that Greenwood is accused of raping and sexually assaulting are no longer accessible on her social media accounts.

The Nike corporation who sponsored the player had previously said that it was suspending its business connection with him, but it has now confirmed that the deal has come to an end. Earlier this month, Nike announced that Mason Greenwood would no longer be a Nike athlete. 

This comes as yet another setback for the youngster as Man Utd’s official partner Cadbury earlier issued a statement regarding the player’s omission from their commercials involving the Premier League club.

Cadbury said in a statement: "Cadbury does not condone violence in any form. Our Partnership is with the Club itself and not the individual players.

"However, while these allegations are being investigated, any marketing or products we create with Manchester United will not feature this player. We will continue to monitor the situation closely."

EA Sports also had removed Greenwood from active squads in the popular FIFA 22 game.
Manchester United said that the player will not return to games or training until further notice in an earlier statement.

As things stand, Greenwood will not be included in United’s squad or training sessions, even though he has not been officially suspended. The player is yet to make any statement against the charges levelled against him.