The world is watching the Jan. 6 hearings in the United States in dismay and contemplating the possible end of the American democratic experiment.

But we should also be thinking about the impact of democratic erosion on corporations and other economic institutions that were built in — and thrived during — the last century.

The evidence unveiled at the hearings and by recent decisions by the U.S. Supreme Court suggests another civil war in the U.S. is a real possibility.

The Republican Party is intent on rolling back women’s rights, voting rights and other pillars of democratic governance in an attempt to grab and hold onto power. Republicans are even willing to overturn free and fair elections.

Political polarization, conspiracy theories, the absence of facts and reason in public discourse and the presence of misinformation spreading through social media networks are all contributing to the demise of democracy in the U.S. Combine these with the rise of authoritarian rhetoric in the Republican Party and there’s a lot to worry about.

It’s easy to view these problems as purely political dangers, but they also pose serious risks to the economic order that thrived because of the stability and freedom provided by democratic systems.

Why should the corporate world be worried?
Wayfair slurs
Consider Wayfair: In 2020, QAnon conspiracy theorists alleged that the online furniture retailer used the cabinets they were selling to engage in child trafficking.

Once this absurd theory began to spread, Wayfair saw a huge increase in negative engagements on Instagram and was forced to refute the wild claims.

When misinformation about a brand begins to circulate, a company is forced to spend time, money and resources disentangling itself from false accusations.

Unfortunately, we live in a moment when social media companies profit from the spread of misinformation. It’s only a matter of time before more companies will face the same problems Wayfair faced.

Read more: https://theconversation.com/why-the-jan-6-hearings-should-be-making-corporations-nervous-188109