Studies regarding how different styles of music affect various aspects of our bodies are carried out all the time. Sometimes the results might surprise us. Heavy metal is a genre, that is typically associated with anger, extremity, violence, sexism, and though these unfounded stereotypes are receding with time, they still continue to exist making metalheads prime target of bashing.

Metal is typically loud and energetic, with heavy distortion, and sometimes shouted vocals. And if you love the way that sounds, this unique music genre can literally impact your mental health in a positive manner.

Unlike mainstream pop and rap songs which despite their ‘happier’ content have been proven to affect mental faculties negatively such as reducing concentration, making people more quick to anger, less prone to question and more prone to depression as well as promoting a misogynistic and less empathetic mindset, metal does the opposite.

For one heavy metal plays a strong role in helping tackle depression. By pairing the  darker more ‘negative’ emotional lyrics with the genre’s hallmark loud sound, it can help provide an outlet for catharsis by processing intense emotions like anger, sadness etc. Metal can also act as an outlet for stress relief. The high level of energy emanated from such music can act as a platform for emotional release.

Metal also helps people develop critical thinking. Developed as rebellion music, metal instills in its listeners the desire to question traditional norms and values. When the media claims that heavy metal makes fans more violent or depressed, etc, fans can develop their investigative skills by exploring the claims. This helps foster scientific thinking, create an understanding of logical fallacies, and gain an appreciation for biases. 
 
Heavy metal also promotes creative thinking, a desire to explore, rely more on logic and read. 
 
In summation, metal can do wonders for mental health and wellness. For one its powerful sound can energize you while its intensity can aid in processing the existing negativity such as depression and anger while also enhancing existing cognitive functions such as creativity, concentration and logical, empathic thinking.
 