My colleagues in the Union Cabinet Smt. Nirmala Sitharaman ji, Shri Rao Inderjit Singh, Pankaj Choudhary ji, Shri Bhagwat Krishnarao Karad ji, other dignitaries, ladies and gentlemen!

Over the years, the Ministry of Finance and Ministry of Corporate Affairs have come a long way creating a legacy for themselves by taking the right decisions at the right time. All of you are a part of this legacy. Many colleagues have made a huge contribution in the last 75 years whether it is to make the life of the common people easier, or to strengthen the economy of the country.

This iconic week is an opportunity for every such colleague to vitalize every such effort of the past. This is a very good step if we can improve our efforts by taking inspiration from the past during the ‘Amrit Kaal’ of Independence. Today, the glorious journey of the rupee was also shown here, a digital exhibition acquainted with this journey also started, and new coins dedicated to the Amrit Mahotsav of independence were also issued.

These new coins will constantly remind the people of the country about the goals of ‘Amrit Kaal’ and inspire them to contribute to the development of the nation. Your department is going to organize many programs in the next one week. I convey my best wishes to all the departments and units involved in this virtuous work.

Friends,

This Amrit Mahotsav of independence is not just a celebration of 75 years, but celebrating, fulfilling and instilling a new potential to the dreams of our heroes of independence for independent India, who took part in the long struggle for independence; added a different dimension to this movement and intensified its energy. This is the moment to move forward with new resolutions.

Some adopted the path of Satyagraha, while some chose the path of armed struggle; some chose the path of faith and spirituality, while some used the power of their pen to awaken the flame of freedom intellectually. Someone tried to add vigor in the independence of the country by fighting the court cases. 

Read the entire speech here:- https://www.pmindia.gov.in/en/news_updates/pms-speech-at-inauguration-of-iconic-week-celebrations-of-ministry-of-finance-ministry-of-