The season finale is all about endings, but let's not forget the beginning: a retro-styled prologue that imagines what this show would be like if made in the 1970s, in the style of legendary series The Incredible Hulk. 
Jen's mom shows Nikki a video of Jen twerking in law school. 
Nikki uses the video as bait so Pug can infiltrate an IRL meeting of the manosphere where everyone refers to women as "females"
They're bitching about a woman Thor, as seen in the comics and then played by Natalie Portman in Thor: Love and Thunder.
The Abomination arrives, but don't worry: Emil isn't a complete monster, even if he is happy to go green and spout self-help platitudes for obnoxious assholes. Titania also shows up, to add to the chaos. And Bruce too, finally.
It turns out tech bro Todd Phelps is the mysterious big bad HulkKing who created the Intelligencia website.  He's also the guy who sent Josh to steal Jen's blood. In his mind, stealing superheroes is actually earning them. He injects himself with Jen's blood and becomes a Hulk. In other words, the villain becomes a mirror image of the hero, a trope which powered the climaxes of MCU films right from the start. 
And Jen isn't having it.
Jen smashes the fourth wall completely and busts right through your Disney Plus home screen.
Jen confronts the show's writers about the messy finale and familiar final confrontation.
Jen wants to deal with the real human emotional stakes she's grappling with. That, the writers respond, isn't the show Kevin wants. They must be talking about Marvel Studios President Kevin Feige, the baseball-hatted supremo who's steered the MCU to box office dominance. Except, as the subtitles reveal, they're actually talking about someone -- or something -- called K.E.V.I.N.
It turns out the MCU is the brainchild of an AI calling itself Knowledge Enhanced Visual Interconnectivity Nexus, employing the most-advanced entertainment algorithm in the world to make "near-perfect products" -- although some are better than others. 