Former President Donald Trump last month handed over to the National Archives 15 boxes of documents, letters, gifts and mementos that he had taken with him when leaving office but that he had been legally required to leave in the custody of the federal government, officials said Monday.

The materials included the original versions of a letter that former President Barack Obama had left for Trump when he was first sworn in, as well as correspondence from North Korean leader Kim Jong Un. The items also included a map Trump famously drew on with a black Sharpie marker to demonstrate the track of Hurricane Dorian heading toward Alabama in 2019 to back up a declaration he had made on Twitter that contradicted weather forecasts.

The boxes contained items taken from the White House’s residence during a hasty exit after Trump had spent the bulk of the presidential transition trying to find ways to stay in power, according to two people familiar with the process of how the boxes were returned. At the time, Trump’s aides were either preoccupied with helping him overturn the election, trying to stop him or avoiding him.

The Washington Post reported earlier that Trump had handed over the boxes to the National Archives.

Other items in the boxes were reams of news clips printed out for Trump, as well as at least one item of clothing, the people familiar with the process said.

Trump handed over the materials after several months of back and forth between his lawyers and the National Archives, which houses presidential records and eventually makes many of them public.

The National Archives said in a statement that it obtained the boxes in mid-January and that Trump’s lawyers told the agency that “they are continuing to search for additional presidential records that belong to the National Archives.”

The disclosure is yet the latest example of a lack of strict adherence by Trump and some of his aides to the laws intended to preserve government documents and shield classified information from foreign enemies.