The Russian disinformation machine started working much before it invaded Ukraine on February 24. But it had never imagined that Ukrainians would not only fight back the huge Russian forces in the battlefront, but also launch a counter-offensive against Russia’s notorious disinformation strategy.

In the past decade, Russia’s state-backed hackers have mastered the art of spreading fake news and misleading people across different parts of the world. Cyber experts believe these hackers had been able to interfere in two US elections, UK’s Brexit referendum and spewed fake information during Covid-19 pandemic.

Following its usual strategy, Russian disinformation system cooked up stories of a “Nazified Ukraine” and the alleged genocide in Ukraine’s eastern region of Donbass. The Russian people were also made to believe that Putin’s “special military operation” – not a war or an invasion – was actually meant to liberate oppressed Ukrainians.

But soon after the invasion, when US-based social media started labelling the Russian propaganda as questionable information, the Kremlin started censoring their channels. Facebook, Instagram, YouTube and even TikTok, owned by a Chinese company, were nearly blocked by the Kremlin so that the Russians receive only state-controlled information.

But this blockage was actually an opportunity for ordinary Ukrainians who used social media to project the brutality of Russian invasion across the world. Images and videos of the plight of civilians in the face of lethal Russian bombs were shared by the citizens. This was also possible because they got uninterrupted access to the internet, thanks to Elon Musk’s StarLink satellites beaming high speed internet connection across war-torn Ukraine.   

Simple images showing shattered homes and injured children in hospitals, unaided by deep fakes or other deception techniques, was able to reflect heart-wrenching glimpses of life in Ukraine. In addition, Ukraine’s dogged resistance against mammoth Russian forces and the failure of ruthless attack of invaders were also skilfully and convincingly documented by its people.  

Thus, Russian forces reached a stalemate in the warfront and its disinformation campaign also hit the wall of resistance by Ukrainians. 

READ MORE:

 https://www.nytimes.com/2022/03/25/world/europe/ukraine-war-social-media.html

https://www.france24.com/en/europe/20220308-following-the-war-in-ukraine-%E2%80%93-and-fighting-it-%E2%80%93-on-social-media

https://www.npr.org/2022/03/19/1087265230/4-reasons-why-social-media-can-give-a-skewed-account-of-the-war-in-ukraine