RCD Espanyol (Rivals - Barcelona)

Barcelona's modest neighbours have never been even close to their famous rivals. Only four Copa del Rey titles have been won by the club, which pales in compared to their competitors' colossal prize tally. To add insult to injury, Barcelona considers their biggest rivalry to be against Real Madrid, while the city derby receives far less attention.

Politics has also defined the distinctions between the two: Espanyol was created by Spanish citizens and has stayed mostly out of politics, in contrast to Barcelona, who has always presented itself as a Catalan side, fully supportive of Catalan independence.

1860 Munich (Rivals - Bayern Munich)

1860 Munich, like their Turin opponents, were the dominant team in the early twentieth century, significantly superior to Bayern. Both teams were tied for first place in the Bundesliga standings at the start of the season, with one league title each.
They've been horribly mismanaged and have suffered a great deal of misery. Between 1970 and 1994, 1860 Munich spent 20 years in the lower divisions as Bayern Munich grew into one of Europe's best teams.

Indeed, the two teams shared the Allianz Arena until 2017, and Bayern was eager to lend a hand to their less fortunate neighbours during a difficult financial period in 2011. 1860 Munich face an uphill battle to reclaim their place at the top of German football, but it must be frustrating for their supporters to see Bayern Munich win the league practically every season.

Torino (Rivals - Juventus)

At the time, the Turin rivals were separated by only one league title, but since then, Juventus has won Serie A 33 times, while Torino has only won seven times.

Torino has never been able to reclaim their former glory and has spent much of the last three decades in Serie B, which means the derby isn't as popular as it once was. Torino was renowned for being a working-class team, but Juventus, controlled by the affluent Agnelli family, was known for having an educated, middle-class fan base.