The Challenges of Nation Building in Afghanistan continues...
The post-September 11, 2001, events have changed the Afghan 
situation to a great extent. The expulsion of the Taleban and the 
establishment of a central government and efforts towards reconstruction 
have made possible the largest voluntary repatriation or return of refugees 
in decades. Before 9/11, about 3.5 million Afghan refugees were living in 
the neighbouring countries of Iran and Pakistan, and many others in 
Central Asian states, India as well as in Europe and North America. 

Around 3 million refugees have been repatriated to Afghanistan since the 
Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees 
(UNHCR)—assisted repatriation operation began in March 2002 Several thousand Afghan refugees also returned—some spontaneously, others with UNHCR help from Tajikistan, Uzbekistan, Kyrgyzstan and Turkmenistan. Under this programme, UNHCR provides returning 
refugees with a travel grant, food and some non-food items to help them 
re-establish in Afghanistan. Some reports of improvement of living 
conditions in villages and towns leading to vacating of the refugee camps 
51 like Zari Dasht near Kandahar are filtering out.

Although there was significant repatriation in the couple of years 
following the fall of the Taleban the scene was not pleasant for the Afghan 
asylum seekers abroad. The governments who tightened immigration 
controls all over the world concluded that Afghans could safely return 
home and hence were denied entry. Many returning refugees reportedly 
returned to find their homes, villages and farmlands destroyed by war. 
During the year 2002, the international community failed to deliver 
adequate security and reconstruction assistance, both essential for full and 
52 sustainable refugee repatriation. Those Afghans staying abroad were 
ambivalent about returning. At the end of 2002, around 700,000 
Afghans remained internally displaced throughout the country, although 
the UNHCR, the International Organisation for Migration (IOM), and 
other agencies helped organise the return of more than 250,000 Afghan 
IDPs to their home areas. An additional 200,000 internally displaced 
Afghans returned home on their own.
To be continued....