The UK Government today sanctioned Roman Abramovich who is the owner of Chelsea Football club. He is one of the seven oligarchs from Russia who have been sanctioned by the Government of the United Kingdom. All of his assets have been frozen, this means he won't be able to sell Chelsea which was his plan as he had announced it one week ago.
These sanctions have been made by the Government is response to Russia's invasion of Ukraine. The UK government have said that Abramovich is a supporter of Russian President Vladimir Putin.
The Prime Minister of United Kingdom said the following in a statement regarding these sanctions,
"There can be no safe havens for those who have supported Putin's invasion....Today's sanctions are the latest step in our ruthless pursuit of those who enable the killing of civilians, destruction of hospitals and illegal occupation of Ukraine."
Chelsea Football Club's functions haven't been frozen completely though but they have been limited. The Government has granted them a special Sporting License. The Club will be able to play games but fhey can't sell tickets or even any merchandise. Only fans who who are season-ticket holders will be able to attend the matches. The club won't be able to sign any new players and they won't even be able to renew any contracts of existing players.
The UK Government in a statement said,

"Given the significant impact that today's sanctions would have on Chelsea Football Club and the potential knock-on effects of this, the government has this morning published a licence which authorises a number of football-related activities to continue at Chelsea.This includes permissions for the club to continue playing matches and other football-related activity which will in turn protect the Premier League, the wider football pyramid, loyal fans and other clubs. This licence will only allow certain explicitly named actions to ensure the designated individual is not able to circumvent UK sanctions.The licence will be kept under constant review and we will work closely with the football authorities."