Vladimir Putin had never imagined that Ukrainians will stand up against his marauding army, robust missile power and air bombs with such a steely resolve. The Russian president must have planned the extermination of the enemy within a day or two and capture Kyiv, the capital city of Ukraine.

One of the key factors behind the stiff resistance by Ukraine is a key weapon from the US: anti-tank missiles called Javelin. Measuring just about 4ft (1.2 meters), the Javelin is quite light-weight that can be carried on the shoulder and can be fired by even a lone soldier. It can pierce a tank’s most vulnerable part – its roof – from a distance of 2.5 km. The best part of the weapon is that it can be operated after just three-days’ training.

Manufactured by American defence contractors Lockheed Martin and Raytheon it’s ideal for battling against armoured vehicles moving in urban settings. Called fire-and-forget-missile – which allows the user to take cover immediately after launch – it uses a sophisticated infrared guidance system to target moving tanks. The weapon has been successfully used by the US Army and US Marine Corps in the warfronts at Afghanistan, Iraq, Libya and Syria.   

The US had supplied Ukraine with 300 Javelins in January, along with 180 projectiles and 30 launchers. Ukraine, a country so-long equipped with primitive Soviet-era weapons, got this advanced and horribly expensive weapon for free. The US President has promised to dispatch many more Javelins with his package of $350 million aid to Ukraine.   

Ukrainians claim they have destroyed a column of 15 Russian T-72 tanks near the town of Hlukhiv, close to the Russian border last week. There were reports of other such ambushes from different regions. The weapon reminds of slingshots used by the underdog David against the mythical giant Goliath, depicted in the Bible, to pierce the vulnerable centre of the giant’s head.  

READ MORE:

https://www.jpost.com/international/article-699010

https://www.euronews.com/next/2022/02/27/ukraine-war-st-javelin-and-the-missile-that-has-become-a-symbol-of-ukraine-s-resistance

https://asia.nikkei.com/Politics/Ukraine-war/Secret-to-Ukraine-s-fierce-resistance-Javelin-antitank-missiles