1. Healer is centred on 3 individuals who are brought together due to a tragic incident that took place in 1992.

Ji Chang-wook plays an illegal “night courier”, codenamed “Healer”, and is known for his excellent fighting skills. Meanwhile, Chae Young-shin (Park Min-young) is a tabloid reporter who gets panic attacks whenever she sees violence due to the PTSD caused by her abusive childhood.

The two meet when Kim Mun-ho (Yoo Ji-tae), a famous journalist, hires Healer to locate and protect Ji-an – now known as Young-shin – from the people that want her dead due to the 1992 incident. While protecting Young-shin, he inadvertently falls in love with her.

2. In Heart to Heart, Cha Hong-do (Choi Kang-hee) suffers from severe social anxiety disorder, which makes her blush excessively whenever she looks into people’s eyes. Due to her condition, she quits high school and locks herself away from the world, only interacting with her grandmother.

After her grandmother’s passing, Hong-do is forced to go out into the world. She meets Go Yi-seok (Chun Jung-myung), a psychiatrist, and develops a desire to recover from her illness. Yi-seok, however, also has a lot on his plate – a mother who is bipolar and has depression and a sister who suffers from parental neglect.

Nevertheless, he decides to patiently help Hong-do overcome her anxiety, setting the two on a sweet journey of healing together.

3. Rain or Shine tells the story of two individuals who lost their loved ones in a tragic accident and had to suppress the pain of their loss in order to carry on with life.

After Lee Gang-doo (Lee Jun-ho) injures his leg and loses his father during a mall collapse incident, his dream of becoming a soccer player gets shattered, leaving him with PTSD and a lack of motivation for anything.

One day, Gang-doo meets Ha Moon-soo (Won Jin-ah), who suffers from PTSD-induced amnesia after losing her younger sibling in the same incident. As the two start to open up to each other, they fall in love and find new motivation in life through each other.