Russia’s Ukraine invasion poses a stiff challenge to Europe’s complete switch to green energy by 2035 and meet an ambitious climate change goal in less than two decades.

If one thinks positively, Europe’s dependence on Russian natural gas and oil imports for its energy production has been a big impediment to do away with fossil fuels. So, if things work well, the Ukraine crisis should help speed up the continent’s transition towards an era of clean energy.

Theoretically speaking, Europe had been leading the world’s transition into green energy for nearly a century. Dutch wind turbines have been a role model for renewable energy for decades. But despite the early gains, wind power supplies hardly 12 percent of the energy demand of the continent. Solar energy, a relatively new green energy, makes around 4 percent of the European Union’s gross electricity generation. Currently, renewables meet around a third of energy demands of the continent.

A large swathe of Europe – especially the eastern side – still depends either on coal power or nuclear energy. Even though nuclear energy doesn’t add much carbon into the air, there’s a strong opposition against this source of power because management of radioactive nuclear waste from power plants remains a key problem.

 Germany is a country which is perhaps most keen on transition to renewables, pushed hard by the Green Party, a constituent of its newly formed ruling coalition. But the tragedy is that the country, the biggest industrial economy of Europe, depends largely on Russian natural gas and oil. Nearly 40 per cent of its energy production depends on Russian supply.  

Now despite the economic sanction, the country hasn’t been able to completely stop importing Russian gas or oil. Right now, it’s trying to fill up the energy demands with Liquefied Natural Gas (LNG) from the US and Middle East. But that’s only a temporary arrangement. Germany and the rest of Europe must fast-track its switch to green energy for survival and economic gains in future.  

READ MORE:

 https://www.dw.com/en/will-war-fast-track-the-energy-transition/a-61021440

https://www.nytimes.com/2022/03/22/business/economy/ukraine-russia-europe-energy.html

https://e360.yale.edu/features/will-russias-war-spur-europe-to-move-on-green-energy