GroupM has released its This Year, Next Year Global 2022 Mid-Year Ad Forecast. According to the report, the ad growth forecast for 2022 in India is relatively unchanged at 22.1%, while many markets are now expected to grow by mid-to-high single digits. 

The report stated, “There is also significant potential for long-term expansion still in place in India, where the population is broadly similar in size compared to China, but India’s advertising market is less than one-tenth of China.  

On current estimates, India is positioned to rise from its position as the world’s tenth-largest market to become the seventh-largest — ahead of Canada, Australia and Brazil — by 2025. 

The report stated that halfway through the year, global ad spends is expected to grow by 8.4%, down from the 9.7% it had forecasted in December 2021. The growth forecast excludes the impact of the US political advertising, which is expected to reach $13 billion this year — up from $12 billion in 2020 (underlying growth).

France, Germany, Brazil and Canada are expected to grow by high single digits. The US, Australia and the UK are likely to grow by mid-single digits. The ad growth in China is expected to grow by low single digits.

“Increased consumer price inflation in the markets we cover is expected to average nearly 7% this year, sparking fears of recession. However, we don’t see a perilous economic state. Underlying (“real,” or inflation-adjusted) growth should outpace that of 2019, even if some parts of the world do end up experiencing an economic downturn,” the report read. 

GroupM has reduced its 2022 forecast mainly due to the deceleration in China, which accounts for 20% of the global ad market. The ad market in China is expected to grow 3.3% this year, down from the 10.2% original forecast. China’s ad market is impacted due to strict Covid-19-related lockdowns in the first half of the year.

Read the full story here:- https://bestmediainfo.com/2022/06/india-to-become-7thlargest-ad-market-by-2025-growth-forecast-for-2022-unchanged-at-22-1-groupm