Prime Minister Narendra Modi replied to the debate on the Motion of Thanks to the President's address in the Lok Sabha in the ongoing Budget Session of Parliament on Monday and he used the occasion to hit out at the opposition, especially the Congress. 

He also sought to score a political point by referring to the election going states of Uttar Pradesh, Punjab and Uttarakhand, blaming the Congress and the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) for the spread of Covid in these states. 

"In the time of coronavirus, the Congress crossed all limits. When experts advised to stay where you are, the Congress encouraged migrant labourers. During the first wave, you (Congress) gave free train tickets to migrant workers to leave Mumbai. At the same time, Delhi government told migrant workers to leave the city and provided them buses. As a result, Covid spread rapidly in Punjab, Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand," he said. 

Modi and his government came under severe attack for imposing an "ill-conceived" lockdown that impacted the economy very badly, resulting in massive unemployment apart from triggering huge migrant crisis. 

The Congress had arranged buses and trains for the migrant workers to enable them to go back to their homes in villages and towns. 

Modi also took a dig at the Congress and recalled how long it's been since the grand old party formed a government in Uttar Pradesh, Bihar and Gujarat. "In Gujarat, Congress won way back in 1985. In West Bengal, it was 1972 when Congress was last favoured by the people. You (Congress) take credit for creating Telangana, but people of Telangana haven't accepted you. Question isn't of elections, it is of intention," he said. 

Modi also said that despite being in power for so long, the people of this country is now snubbing the Congress for good.

"Your ego (Congress) remains despite suffering back-to-back electoral losses over the years," he said. 

Taking a dig at Rahul Gandhi, Modi said, "What does their leader say that industrialists are a variant of Covid? What are you saying? At least tell him that you are damaging Congress."

Gandhi alleges that Modi is run by Ambani and Adani.