Coming back after five years since the 2017 banger ‘Gods of Violence’, the German thrashers are back, and are hitting just as hard, heavy and banging as loud as ever. Always in the mainstay of German metal scene, Kreator is one of the most iconic thrash bands of all time. 

Whether we look at their rawer more aggressive classics from the 80s like ‘Extreme Aggression’ or ‘Coma of Souls’ from 1990, their more experimental phase from the likes of ‘Renewal’ and ‘Endorma’, or the new phase of Gothenburg melodic death metal inspired thrash from Violent Revolution, the band never lost their touch.

The waiting period due to COVID-19 delays was really annoying, but the band’s fifteenth album ‘Hate Über Alles’ makes the wait worth it, though it is not without its flaws, primarily being that it is not as good as either ‘Violent Revolution’ or ‘Gods of Violence’. Nonetheless ,it packs an enduring sense of modern musical precision and sonic richness of technical precision, heaviness and thrash rawness. 

A melodic thrash banger like all Kreator albums since Violent Revolution, ‘Hate Über Alles’ is a vintage collection of tightly produced hard edged headbanging mayhem laced with thrashing, gnarling ferocity and badass riffing. One drop here are Mille Petrozza’s vocals, which sound cheesy as hell, and somewhat off. 

A bigger difference here is that the presentation is darker and heavier, while the sonic tilt is a bit more leaning towards the big, epic style. Best way to describe ‘Hate Über Alles’ is that unlike the other albums which were more a mix of In Flames meets Anthrax meets Testament, it is more like Slayer, meets Sodom, meets modern day Dark Tranquility.

Kreator have not refined the power packed sexy melodic thrash of ‘Violent Revolution’ or rev up their work with the curious experimental overtones of something like ‘Endorama’. Neither can the band really ever go back to their early bangers like ‘Extreme Aggression’ or ‘Come of Souls’, but they can and have done is create a headbanging monstrosity sure to give you neck aches and make you do intense air guitaring.

Score: 9/10