A protest against coronavirus restrictions by a convoy of truck drivers—the so-called Freedom Convoy—that began as an unruly occupation in Canada’s capital Ottawa about two weeks ago, is now galvanising right-wing supporters in several parts of the world.

In the beginning it looked like an expression of frustration by ordinary citizens, but gradually the protests turned into a rallying cry for anti-vaccine and far-right groups to drive their typical agenda.

Initially, the demonstration was against a rule that mandates truckers to be vaccinated against Covid-19 to cross the US-Canada border. But the protest was taking a right turn became obvious when some of the demonstrators were found donning Nazi symbols and desecrating public monuments, such as the Tomb of the Unknown Soldier at the National War Memorial. 

The Ottawa police now find increasingly violent protests reverberating with racial and homophobic abuse. According to their police chief Peter Sloly, the protesters are “highly organised, well-funded and extremely committed” to resist all attempts by law enforcers to stop the protests. 

Meanwhile, the protest and the hashtag “Freedom Convoy” is turning viral online with support from leading US Republican politicians, far-right influencers and white supremacist groups active in Europe and even Australia. These groups exchange encrypted messages on all the developments of the Canadian protests and share ideas on how to spread the movement in other countries.

This global movement of fringe anti-establishment groups have been active since the beginning of the pandemic in early 2020. They oppose government mask mandates, question vaccine efficacy and protest against public health measures in the name of freedom of expression and individual rights. 

These groups operate through multiple crowdfunding platforms and co-ordinate through encrypted messaging groups through fringe social networks, since platforms like Facebook, Twitter and YouTube started clamp down on anti-vaccine misinformation in 2021. 

READ MORE: https://www.bbc.com/news/world-us-canada-60267841

https://www.politico.com/news/2022/02/06/ottawa-truckers-convoy-galvanizes-far-right-worldwide-00006080

https://www.nytimes.com/2022/02/07/world/canada/canada-protesters-ottawa.html