By SHINJINEE MAJUMDER & INDRADEEP BHATTACHARYYA
On September 23, a day after Popular Front of India (PFI) offices across the country were raided by multiple law-enforcement agencies, a protest by PFI activists in Pune created a huge row as many political leaders and media houses claimed that ‘Pakistan Zindabad’ slogans were raised at the protest.
Alt News debunked the claim on September 25 and proved that the slogans raised by PFI supporters/activists heard in the viral videos did not include ‘Pakistan Zindabad’.
In this context, over the past few days Marathi news channel Saam TV has repeatedly aired a 20-second clip (0:28 of video) from the PFI protest in Pune in their coverage insisting that ‘Pakistan Zindabad’ can be heard. They also criticized Alt News’ fact check from September 25, claiming that ‘Pakistan Zindabad’ could be clearly heard in the clip.
The footage aired by Saam TV consists of a close-up shot of a man wearing a pink shirt inside a police van. He can be heard sloganeering from the van itself. The camera then pans away from the pink-shirted man and points to the crowd of protesters. At the end of the 20-second clip, the police van can be seen moving away.
https://youtu.be/ZYCGUw3hqEk
Executive editor of Saam TV News Prasanna Joshi seems unconvinced by the previous Alt News fact-check in a 22-minute video uploaded by Saam TV. He goes on to make his viewers listen to the same footage and insists that ‘Pakistan Zindabad’ can be heard.
https://youtu.be/7d75_T8h44o
A clip from Saam TV’s coverage subsequently went viral. Twitter users, including Aaj Tak news anchor Shubhankar Mishra, shared it claiming that ‘Pakistan Zindabad’ could be heard in the video.
( Link https://twitter.com/shubhankrmishra/status/1574450556092919808?t=nyEsvM_bqQdMmXKQv0xO9g&s=19)
Advocate Ashutosh J Dubey, who identifies himself on Twitter as ‘legal co-convener Of Palghar BJP assembly’, also tweeted the clip with the caption, “In a clear video with clear audio, we can hear that they are shouting “Pakistan Zindabaad” via Saam TV news”.
Read the full story here:- https://www.altnews.in/analysis-of-saam-tv-clip-of-pfi-protest-reaffirms-no-pro-pak-slogans-raised/