Cricket is a professional outdoor sport played by people from many countries, especially at national and international levels.
This outdoor game consists of two teams of 11 players each.
Cricket is played by each team till the completion of 20 overs.
All laws, rules and regulations are maintained by the International Cricket Council and the Merrillbone Cricket Club.
It is played for Test matches and One Day Internationals.
It was previously played in southern England during the 16th century.
However, during the 18th century, it was developed as the national sport of England.
It began playing overseas during the expansion of the British Empire and until the 19th century, the first international match was held by the ICC (a governing body) with two teams with 10-member teams each.
Cricket is the most popular sport played in many countries like England, Australia, West Indies, Indian Subcontinent and Southern Africa.
Young children in India are very fond of the sport and usually, they used to play cricket in small open spaces, which is most likely in the streets or parks. The most popular game of the present time is cricket.
The cricket has become a popular sport in many countries.
Cricket was first started in Britain, that’s why Britain is called the father of cricket.
Cricket is the most popular sport in India.
Although the national sport of India is hockey, the people of India are mostly interested in cricket.
A team of cricket game consists of eleven players.
Cricket matches are played in three ways – ODI, Test and T20.
The cricket pitch is 22 yards, here the ball is thrown, there are wickets on both sides of it.
The over is of six balls, ie the bowler has to throw six balls in one over.
The cricket field is in an oval position and it also grows light hay grass. The final line of the field is called a boundary. Before playing, a toss is made between the two teams with a coin that determines who will be batting first. Bowling will do. Cricket is a professional outdoor sport played by people from many countries, especially at national