Indian football’s success story at the international arena is far and few. The last time their national football team won a senior title at the Asian level was 70 years ago; the last medal in this category – a third place finish in Asian Games – came in 1970. It was a fine performance still cherished by the soccer fans, but not the custodians of the game. On January 22, 2022, when one of the finest players of the 1970 squad – Subhas Bhowmick – passed away at the age of 72, the National League of country, Indian Super League (ISL) continued to be played in the most nonchalant way. Not a word was spoken on Bhowmick’s death, the two contesting sides were never told to line up and observe a minute’s silence (the least they could have done) in memory of the footballer, who once brought laurels for the nation.
Well, there wasn’t much to be surprised about – it had happened before too. Last year, when Nikhil Nandy, a member of India’s 1956 Olympic team, who finished fourth in Melbourne, breathed his last, the bosses in the National League didn’t allow the issue to disturb the smooth flow of their cash-rich meet. After Bhowmick was ignored, an observer said: “The idea is to create a make-believe situation that says football in India began only in 2014. Whatever happened before that is a myth that needs to be rejected. Those who have been plotting this are causing a permanent damage to the game.”
Worst is the All-India Football Federation (AIFF), a mute spectator to the entire situation. The ISL is the official National League of the country, but it’s only on paper; in reality, it is a private tournament with the AIFF having no say whatsoever in running the show. So independent is the running of the league that it often doesn’t even bother to consult or inform the official league committee of the federation whenever a major decision is taken. Bhowmick, who was a keen watcher of India’s top league till his last days, didn’t know it had no time for him. A sad situation indeed.