According to the National Family Health Survey (NFHS-5) for the year 2019-21, Indian female population has increased, with the overall sex ratio rising to 1,020, up from 991 in 2015-16. Despite the fact that the gender gap has narrowed, women’s general awareness around various diseases remain low.

Women’s and girls’ health is of particular concern because they are disadvantaged on numerous aspects of life due to the continuous discrimination based on socio-cultural factors. Women and girls, for example, are more vulnerable to HIV/AIDS than men. As a result, it is critical that women’s health in the country is not only prioritised, but also that efforts are made to eliminate gender discrimination that prevents women from seeking medical help.

📍Women’s health: The challenges

According to the World Health Organization, many sociocultural factors prevent women and girls from receiving high-quality health care and this subsequently stunts their growth in many aspects of life like education, profession, and sports, to name a few. Uneven power relationships between men and women; social norms that limit education and paid employment opportunities for women; an exclusive focus on women’s reproductive roles; and the threat or experience of physical, sexual, or emotional violence act as a barrier to women seeking medical help, even if they are aware of some of the common symptoms of diseases like breast and cervical cancer.

While poverty is a significant barrier to good health for both men and women, it has a greater impact on the health of women and girls. In comparison to NFHS4, the NFHS 5 discovered that more than half of women (including pregnant women) are anaemic, despite a significant increase in the composition of iron-folic acid (IFA) tablets taken by pregnant women for 180 days or more.

Women preferably choose to treat their symptoms on their own rather than seeking medical attention. The lack of money, prioritisation of household chores over their need for care, and the absence of a male guardian to accompany them to facilities to seek care, all contributed to these decisions.

Read more- https://www.shethepeople.tv/gender-fact/womens-health-early-diagnosis-raising-awareness-is-critical/amp/