If you’ve tried melatonin to help solve your sleep issues, you’re in good company. The use of the over-the-counter supplements has grown by more than 500 percent in the past two decades, from .4 percent in 1999–2000 to 2.1 percent in 2017–2018, according to research published February 1 in the Journal of the American Medical Association (JAMA).

While the overall percentage of users may seem small, it corresponds to more than six million people, says Naima Covassin, PhD, an assistant professor at Mayo Clinic in Rochester, Minnesota, and a coauthor of the study.

“Given the increasing popularity in use of melatonin supplements, our observations support the need for better awareness of safety and the effects of melatonin supplements in the public as well as among medical professionals,” says Dr. Covassin.

📍More People Are Taking Melatonin and at Higher Doses.

To study how the use of melatonin has changed over the past 20 years, researchers used data gathered every two years in the National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey (NHANES) from 1999 to 2000 to 2017 to 2018. A total of 55,021 people responded; 52 percent were women and 48 percent men, and the average age was 47.

Not only did the use of the supplement rise from .4 to 2.1 percent of respondents during the study period, but the dose people took rose as well. The use of more than 5 milligrams (mg) per day of melatonin was not reported until 2005–2006, and since that time, a growing number of people have been taking higher doses.

📍Study Highlights the Number of Americans Who Struggle With Sleep.

Beyond documenting the increased use of melatonin, a key takeaway from this study is that a whole lot of people are having sleep problems, says David Neubauer, MD, an associate professor of psychiatry and behavioral sciences and a sleep expert at Johns Hopkins Medicine in Baltimore, who was not involved in the study.

Read more- https://www.everydayhealth.com/melatonin/research-shows-more-americans-trying-melatonin-despite-potential-risks/