We know the kidneys is one of the most important body organs that is there to filter our blood. Kidneys problems can make a problem for the entire body. Kidney stones is one among the problem and it requires some surgical interventions. The doctors at times leaves the smaller stones that wouldn't cause symptoms but will remove the large stones. 

A new study published in The New England Journal of Medicine learned that by removing the smaller asymptomatic stones reduces the risk of kidney stone relapse. 

What are the impacts and the treatment options available 

The National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases gives the definition for kidney stones as “Kidney stones are hard, pebble-like pieces of material that form in one or both of your kidneys when high levels of certain minerals are in your urine.” 

As the stones remain in the kidney, people might not show up symptoms related to it. But the symptoms shows up when once the stones starts to descend to the bladder and starts causing severe pain. If the doctors don't address the kidney stones, then complications can arise such like renal failure and so on. 

Some kidney stones are small and they will be able to pass through the urine, but some of them are too large to pass through their own. And this leads to a surgery where these stones are removed. 

A member who wasn't a part of the study, Dr. David Goldfarb, nephrologist and Moonstone Nutrition‘s co-founder and advisory board member explained about the process. 

“Some kidney stones pass spontaneously, and some (perhaps 20%) need a urologist’s intervention to be removed. Larger stones are more likely to be difficult to pass. Even stones that pass can cause significant pain and misery, require imaging and interventions, and obviously have a cost as well. 

They are the most common urological emergency room visit, and so the cost in the United States has been estimated as $10 billion, including missed work. Stones also sometimes cause urinary tract infections; an obstructed AND infected urinary tract is an emergency.” 

Sources - Medical News Today