In February 2021, the Canadian government designated the far-right group, the Proud Boys, as a terrorist entity.

At the time, it was argued that the designation was an important step in clearly demarcating the boundary between acceptable and inappropriate behaviour, particularly in an increasingly polarized political environment.

More difficult to determine, however, was how being listed would affect the group. Given the hearings currently being conducted by the U.S. House Select Committee on the Jan. 6 attack are set to focus some attention on the Proud Boys, now seems like an opportune moment to re-examine the potential threat posed by the group.

Sudden disbanding
Despite being a recognized as a terrorist entity, social media accounts associated with Proud Boys Canada remained active throughout early 2021. Suddenly, three months after its listing, the group issued a statement announcing that it had officially disbanded.

In a final act of defiance, the notice maintained that Proud Boys Canada “were never terrorists or a white supremacy group.” Some members refused to accept the decision to dissolve; indeed, former Canadian Proud Boys remain active. Offline, the network’s activities have been restricted to sticker and poster campaigns, with no evidence of violence perpetrated by former Canadian Proud Boys.

Even prior to its listing, Proud Boys Canada was not a unified organization. In 2020, it formally split from an offshoot, Proud Boys Canada First, now simply known as Canada First. Interestingly, Canada First did not grow into an organized group, but instead evolved into a diffuse network of individuals and accounts.

This network is centred around 20 or so former members of the Proud Boys chapter based in Hamilton, Ont., including Tim Kelly and Brandon Lapointe. In contrast to their Proud Boys roots, Canada First’s network is unapologetically fascist, dedicated to producing neo-Nazi propaganda and connecting like-minded National Socialists. Posts shared in the network of channels include content from Telegram channels associated with Fashlash, an offshoot of the international neo-Nazi group Atomwaffen Division.

Read more: https://theconversation.com/the-proud-boys-disbanded-over-a-year-ago-but-far-right-extremism-still-exists-in-canada-185670