The Guardian published an alarming report where they assure Qatar won't allow international media outlets to film interviews to people in their own homes during the FIFA World Cup. This affects free press such as BBC or ITV from the United Kingdom, it also could affect all Marca representatives who are looking to film a piece about life in Qatar.
Color reporting is one of the most common practices in World Cup tournaments for any media outlet that has the means to do it. In fact, most outlets with extensive reach tend to send reporters to the events in order to produce pieces that can offer a better picture of what life is like in the country. But according to The Guardian, Qatar issued some restrictions that presents an ethical dilemma to all broadcasters
FIFA clarifies the specifics about such restrictions
Marca spoke directly with a FIFA World Cup Organizational Committee spokesperson about these alleged restrictions. There is a nuanced way to look at it as they revealed these privacy restrictions are standard for media outlets in every World Cup. Regardless of the country.
Here's what the spokesperson told Marca about the report from The Guardian: "In previous World Cups, press credentials' terms and conditions have been similar to the ones issued for this year. During praxis is where things will change. All media outlets will be able to execute their journalistic faculties freely."
Going further in detail, the spokesperson revealed to Marca that a video journalist from any international media outlet will be able to report as long as they respect the privacy of the people in Qatar. Local authorities will encourage all media outlets to request permission before filming any color reporting content.
But disturbing the peace by filming Qatari way of life without asking for permission may get the reporter in trouble with the law. This happens in every country, Qatar should be no exception, according to this spokesperson from FIFA.
Read more
https://www.marca.com/en/world-cup/2022/10/16/634b2e23e2704e0d6e8b45be.html