Dominic Calvert-Lewin

We start our list with the most evident pick of Dominic Calvert-Lewin. The English striker has been in news recently as it is being rumoured that the Gunners are interested to sign him in the summer.

The 25-year-old striker has not had the best of years after he suffered an injury early on in the season. Owing to this, Calvert-Lewin has just scored 3 goals in 11 Premier League games for Everton this season. 

But Dominic Calvert-Lewin has scored a total of 29 goals in the last two Premier League seasons. To add to this, the Englishman is fast and technical and hence would fit in Mikel Arteta's squad if he is signed up from Everton in the summer. 





Jonathan David

Another brilliant option for Arsenal would be Jonathan David. The 22-year old Canadian striker has been impressive for Lille in the past two seasons. He has also helped the club with the 2020/21 Ligue 1 title. 

Jonathan David has scored a total of 30 goals in 88 appearances for Lille since joining the club in August 2020. The Canadian striker has also been a regular for his national team, scoring 20 goals in 30 appearances. He has also helped Canada qualify for the FIFA World Cup 2022

The 22-year-old star was on the Gunners' radar in January. But the Arsenal board eventually decided not to sign a player in the winter transfer window.




Patrick Schick

Patrick Schick rose to fame after his outrageous long-range strike won him the goal of the tournament award in the UEFA Euro 2020. The striker has since gone on to become an even better player at Bayer Leverkusen. 

The Czech Republic striker is in the midst of the best season in his career to date. The 26-year-old striker has scored 20 goals in 21 Bundesliga appearances for Bayer Leverkusen this season. 

This has put Patrick Schick in the limelight once again and hence he is being linked with a move outside the Bundesliga. With Manchester United also being linked with the striker, it has to be seen if Arsenal can snap him up in the summer.