Officials from Qatar have allegedly recently pushed Israel to permit Palestinian fans to attend the World Cup without obstacles, according to local Israeli reports, just weeks ahead of the much-anticipated global event.
Doha aims to present the major football event as apolitical and guarantee full access for “both Israelis and Palestinians,” sources privy to the matter said, according to reports.
The Qatari officials reportedly made the request in an effort to mediate between Tel Aviv and the Palestinian Authority to avoid an episode from a few years back in which the Zionist regime forbade the Palestinian team from competing in the AFC Asian Cup qualifiers, the sources added.
It remains unclear how many Palestinians have queried to leave the occupying state of Israel for Qatar to watch the games. However, an Israeli diplomatic source told AFP in June that there will be no direct flights between Doha and Tel Aviv during the World Cup.
Qatari authorities have yet to comment publicly on the matter.
It also comes as a senior Israeli official reportedly claimed the two countries had recently discussed setting up a temporary Israeli office in the Gulf country to serve “the needs of the event”.
However, Israel’s foreign ministry denied such reports, according to i24News.
Up to 10,000 Israeli citizens with passports are anticipated to make a “rare” travel to Qatar on a “temporary visa” basis to attend the competition, recent estimates suggest, local Israeli media reported
However it is unknown how many of those are Palestinians.
As per policies by the global footballing body, FIFA requires all World Cup host nations to grant access without discrimination to all ticket holders.
Despite this, Qatar has remained vocal in its criticism of Israeli aggression against Palestinians, repeatedly expressing its staunch refusal to normalise with Israel.
The latest developments also comes as Doha has in recent years elevated its status as a globally recognised mediator, which has arguably served as its most strategic move on the geopolitical stage.