Mental health is receiving its due attention. It’s possible that you may have seen discussions regarding mental health issues on television, in a series, on your favourite show, or even on social media. This is also because there is a rise in the prevalence of mental health issues. In fact, about one in five adults in the US live with a mental disorder, according to the National Institute of Mental Health (NIMH). This data is quite alarming and demonstrates the need for us all to talk about it more openly by removing the stigma associated with it. By doing this, individuals suffering from mental health problems can easily find solutions.
Every mental health condition is distinct to each person and may call for a different type of treatment. But for World Mental Health Day 2022, Health Shots  shares a few daily habits that can help you improve your mental health.
We reached out to Dr Sonal Anand, Psychiatrist, Wockhardt Hospitals, Mira Road, Mumbai, to understand which daily habits can help one to improve or maintain mental health.
Here are 5 habits that can help improve mental health ; 
1. Gain self awareness - 
Observe your thoughts, behaviours and resultant actions so that you can become more objective and make better decisions. By gaining self-awareness, you can understand yourself and even others better. This helps in getting into a better state of mind, avoiding impulsive action and going through lesser stress. Many times we find it difficult to squeeze in time for improving our mental health. Make sure that you keep some ‘ Me’ time for self introspection and improvement.
2. Learn how to deal with negativity - 
Making decisions can be made more difficult when one is in a bad mood or circumstance. Examine the circumstance and seek out constructive ways to combat negativity. Yoga and meditation practices can be helpful in these circumstances. Cognitive restructuring, which involves modifying thinking to eliminate negative thoughts, can be used to streamline thoughts. 
Read more - https://www.healthshots.com/how-to/world-mental-health-day-tips-to-improve-mental-health/