Microsoft announced that Xbox Game Pass Ultimate customers would soon be able to play games via Xbox Cloud Gaming on Samsung 2022 smart TVs via a new Xbox app. For June 30, the Xbox App for smart TVs will be available on Samsung's 2022 smart TVs and monitors. Popular Bluetooth controllers, as well as Bluetooth headsets for gaming audio, will be compatible with the new Xbox software and Samsung's smart TVs.
 It will also be comparable to Xbox in terms of access to new titles from Xbox Game Studios as well as properties like Bethesda Softworks and others.

Microsoft has announced a partnership with Samsung to bring the Xbox App to Smart TVs in 2022, allowing Xbox Game Pass Ultimate customers to play cloud-enabled games without having to own an Xbox device. This effectively means you won't need expensive dedicated hardware to play the subscription's over 100 games, as well as Xbox Game Studios releases on the same day they're released.

Streaming Xbox games on a Samsung 2022 smart TV will "look and feel like any other streaming app on your TV," according to Microsoft. Popular Bluetooth controllers, such as the Xbox Wireless Controller, PlayStation 5's DualSense, and PlayStation 4's DualShock 4, will be compatible with the Xbox app and Samsung smart TVs, as well as Bluetooth headset support for game audio and chat. The feature will be accessible on select Samsung smart TVs in 27 countries and regions.

It's worth noting that Microsoft and Samsung previously collaborated to deliver Xbox Game Pass to Samsung Galaxy handsets. The new move intends to grow the Xbox Game Pass community, which already numbers over 25 million members globally, and attract new users to the Xbox ecosystem by providing them with different ways to play, whether on TV or on the road.

 According to Ashley McKissick, Xbox Corporate Vice President, Gaming Experiences & Platforms, the firm is also looking into partnering with other TV manufacturers to deliver the same capability to other OEMs.

In India, an Xbox Game Pass Ultimate subscription costs Rs. 499 per month. Gamers using Samsung smart TVs may join up straight via the new Xbox app.