As FC Desna criticises Russian bombs, devastating photographs show how a football stadium in Ukraine has been destroyed.
The Ukrainian Premier League club issued a statement confirming the stadium's damage as a result of Russian airstrikes.
A Russian airstrike has destroyed a Ukrainian football stadium in the city of Chernihiv.
This week, the stadium of Ukrainian club Desna Chernihiv, as well as the city library, were bombed.
Debris was strewn across the city's Olympic sports training centre, according to footage circulated on Telegram.
What's going on?
In a statement, the Ukrainian team stated that the stadium had been affected.
The following was part of the statement: "For the third time, the Muscovite occupiers fired on the most dangerous military infrastructure facility in the city - the stadium of our home team. In the photo - the consequences of the night bombing."
It added: "But we will be able to rebuild all this, we will only become stronger and better, and you, 'neighbours,' will live with it all your life."
https://bit.ly/3MKh4Xr
Ukraine's brave young coach has vowed to defend the country. One of the team's coaches has made the decision to fight back against the Russian invasion.
Since taking up weapons against Russia, Alexander Sergeevich, the Under 19s coach, has become a hero in thThe photographs show a once-bustling 12,060-seat stadium that has been nearly completely devastated by the strikes.
The photographs show a once-bustling 12,060-seat stadium that has been nearly completely devastated by the strikes.
One of the main stands has entirely fallen in on itself, with pieces of wood and metal piled on top of each other. One of the main buildings is blown out, with wires and material hanging down and the glass windows smashed by the force of the bomb, as seen from the outside.
The most terrifying image, though, is a panoramic shot of the stadium seen from the pitch.
There is rubble and shards of wood, brick, and metal strewn about on what was once a lovely green playing surface.