Dr. Arjun P.C. (he/him) is the executive member of PRIDE IN PRACTICE, a group of doctors working for achieving LGBTIQA+ inclusive healthcare. He is currently doing house surgeoncy at Govt. Medical college, Calicut. 

Dr. Arjun has been actively involved in queer politics since 2016 through a venture called AHAM at calicut medical college, his brainchild. He was associated with the organization queerythm and got certified for taking SOGIESC classes as a trainer and a part of their maiden research wing. 

Since then he has conducted more than 50 workshops and awareness classes all over the nation and underwent core training in queer health certified by National Health mission and Govt. Of Kerala. He has been in the office bearing posts of various medical organizations like SNO, AIMSA, SIMSA, IMA MSN, and is doing research in queer health field. His other areas of interest include menstrual hygiene, mental health and literature.

Dr. Arjun will be participating in the panel on ‘Medical spaces and trans inclusion’ while speaking on ‘Experiences with the wider medical community’ in the upcoming TransCare Med Ed National conference on May 5th.

About the Conference:

In recent years, there’s been a growing push to make medical education trans-affirmative in the backdrop of Madras and Kerala High Court judgements. But transforming India’s healthcare system comes with the need for a roadmap towards achieving this goal.

Through a systematic, participatory, and inclusive effort, TransCare MedEd has developed a set of draft trans-affirmative competencies on trans-affirmative healthcare in India. 

The upcoming TransCare Med Ed National conference on May 5th and 6th is aimed at disseminating and discussing the draft competencies, highlighting best practices and building consensus on the way forward.

Watch this space for narratives by transgender people navigating healthcare settings, and for thoughts and pathways on the way towards creating access to trans-affirmative healthcare.