Natural Yellow Sapphire—Gemstone
of the Preceptor of God’s-Jupiter
continues....

Yellow Sapphire for Aries ascendant

Jupiter becomes a very auspicious and important planet for this ascendant ruled by Mars. In this ascendant, Jupiter becomes the lord of the 9th trine house of fate and fortune and the 12th house of expenditure. The 9th house is one of the most auspicious houses in one's horoscope and if an individual wears yellow sapphire gemstone many gains can be expected. Jupiter is also the friend of the ascendant lord-Mars. The Aries ascendant individuals in whose charts Jupiter is placed in the 1st, 5th, 9th, 4th houses should wear yellow sapphire birthstone throughout life. Individuals under the major period of Jupiter can wear yellow sapphire gem stone in any house expect for the position of Jupiter in the 10th house where it gets debilitated. The yellow sapphire blesses with gain of fame and fortune, divine grace and good luck.

Yellow Sapphire in Taurus Ascendant

Jupiter is not an important planet for this ascendant. Firstly, it becomes the enemy of the ascendant Lord-Venus. Secondly it owns the 8th house of losses and accidents. In this ascendant Jupiter owns the 8th house of losses and accidents and the 11th house of profits. Individuals should consider wearing a yellow sapphire gemstone only in the major period or sub period of Jupiter and only if they are not wearing diamond or emerald. 

Individuals in whose chart, Jupiter is posited in the 11th house, 3rd house, 4th house can wear yellow sapphire gemstone in Jupiter periods subject to the conditions stated above.

Yellow Sapphire in Gemini Ascendant

Jupiter loses much of its potency in this ascendant ruled by Mercury. In this ascendant Jupiter becomes the Lord of two quadrant houses- the 7th house of marriage and relationships and the 10th house of career and profession. 

When a planet owns two quadrant houses it suffers from the Kendradhipati Dosha or weak directional influence. Individuals should consider wearing a yellow sapphire gem stone only when the Jupiter periods are operating. 

To be continued...