Twenty million hot dogs are sold annually to fans attending games at major league baseball parks in the United States. Hot dogs and lunch meats are popular at baseball games and in lunches carried to work or school. Yet each year in the United States, approximately 1,600 people are
sickened by a bacterium that can contaminate the meat and, worse, survive
and grow even when the meat is properly refrigerated.

The disease culprit is Listeria monocytogenes, a Gram-positive rod
found in soil and many other environmental sites. It is not only cold tolerantbut salt and acid tolerant as well. Although it is in the minor leagues when
compared to some of the big hitters of food-borne disease (e.g., Salmonella
enterica), it is of concern for two reasons: who it kills and how many it kills.
L. monocytogenes targets the young and old, pregnant women, and
immunocompromised individuals; about 15% of those infected die.

Its effect on pregnant women is particularly heartbreaking.Her pregnancy often ends in miscarriage or stillbirth. Newborns
infected with the bacterium are likely to develop meningitis. Many will die
as a result. Those who survive often have neurological disorders. 

 In 2006 the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) approved a new approach to prevent listeriosis: spraying viruses that attack and destroy the bacterium on ready-to-eat cold cuts and luncheon meats. In other words, the viruses
are a food additive! The method is safe because the viruses only attack L.
monocytogenes, not human cells.

Since approval, the use of viruses to control the transmission of listeriosis by other foods has been studied. Unfortunately, those studies did not include fresh
fruit. In 2011 L.monocytogenes contaminated cantaloupe caused an outbreak of listeriosis in 20 U.S. states, which infected over 100 and killed over 20.
Viruses as agents of good will come as a surprise to many. Typically we think of them as major causes of disease. However, viruses are significant for other reasons.

Bacterial viruses are being used in some European countries to treat bacterial infections, and a number of animal viruses are being used to target and destroy cancer cells. Finally, they are important model organisms.