A creamy custard base is topped with a coating of crispy caramel in crème brûlée (also known as Cambridge burnt cream, crema catalana, or Trinity cream). It's usually served chilled, and the custard foundation is vanilla-flavored. For taste and memories, you can't go wrong with this classic French dessert.
Virtually identical to the original crema catalana,[2] is a dessert consisting of a rich custard base topped with a layer of hardened caramelized sugar.irtually identical to the original crema catalana,[2] is a dessert consisting of a rich custard base topped with a layer of hardened caramelized sugar.
It is normally served slightly chilled; the heat from the caramelizing process tends to warm the top of the custard, while leaving the center cool. The custard base is traditionally flavored with vanilla in French cuisine, but can have other flavorings. It is sometimes garnished with fruit.
There are three different tools used to caramelize the sugar and create the crunchy sweet caramel crust on top of the crème brûlée: Culinary Blowtorch* (available at kitchen supply and hardware stores – torch the brown sugar until melted, bubbling and brown. * Be sure to follow the manufacturer’s safety instructions on the blowtorch.) The Broiler (in your oven on High with tray on the top rack. Watch carefully because brown sugar can go from underdone to black burnt in seconds) Flambé Method (a little brandy or rum poured on top of the brown sugar and lit with a flame then blown out when melted, bubbling and brown.) 
The ideal result is to caramelize the top of the crème brûlée without heating up the custard filling below. In any case, make sure you do not burn the brown sugar/crème. 





INGREDIENTS
1 cup (250 ml) whole milk 
1 cup (250 ml) (35% fat content) heavy whipping cream ( use any cream with fat percentage of 20% or higher, Amul Fresh cream has just 12% so add sugar with for more thickness) 
1 tbsp (15g) pure vanilla extract (or 1 vanilla bean split & scraped)) 
4 large egg yolks 
⅓ cup plus 2 tbsp granulated white sugar 
¼ cup brown sugar (for caramelization) 
Recipe On Support Post