At the age of 19, Pedri has developed into a complete midfielder in just two seasons at
Barcelona. He is capable of exploiting any formidable defence and controlling midfield. However, he has a long road ahead of him, but his impact will be enormous. So far, the former Las Palmas player has appeared in 82 games.
3 Serio Busquets
Being a holding midfielder is not for everyone, but Busquets makes it look easy. He is a technically gifted player with excellent positioning who can break any counter-attack. The34-year-old possesses a wide range of game skills, including exceptional vision, ball control, and technical ability.
He is still an important holding midfielder, and Barcelona has yet to find a replacement. The34-year-old has 685 appearances and eight La Liga titles to his name.
2 Andres Iniesta
With his passing and strong vision, he could control the game and dictate the play on his own. He would dominate the midfield alongside Xavi. Iniesta was a deft midfielder whose inventiveness allowed him to excel in midfield. His performance drew the attention of Barcelona's senior team, and Guardiola called him for the match. Iniesta quickly settled and
formed a dominant midfield alongside Xavi. They were both the powerhouse of Barcelona, setting the tone and feeding Lionel Messi goals. Iniesta announced his departure from the club in 2017 after 674 appearances and four Champions League titles.
1 Xavi
Xavi always wants the ball in his leg, and when he has it, it is difficult to take it away from him because the ball is glued to his leg. Xavi's small stature and low centre of gravity enabled him to thrive in midfield and play freely. When in possession, Xavi would perform 360s or body feints to beat defenders and move the ball forward. Although Xavi was not known for tackling or regaining possession, his vision, precise passing, and game, positional sense more than compensated for his tackling. He dominated midfield and helped the club
achieve greatness.
Xavi left the club having made the most appearances (767) and scored the most goals (84), until Messi broke his record. He lifted four Champions League and eight titles.