Elizabeth died peacefully at Balmoral Castle in Scotland, where she had been spending the summer. She will be succeeded by her firstborn son, Charles. "The death of my beloved Mother is a moment of the greatest sadness," Prince Charles says in a statement.
With her financial and property portfolio, she also was one of the world's richest women. Elizabeth grasped the democratizing power of television long before sets were in virtually every household. In 2017, she became the first British monarch to reach a Sapphire Jubilee, marking 65 years in power. She had surpassed Victoria in 2015 to become the longest-reigning British monarch ever.
Jeannette Charles made a career out of playing her for more than 40 years. Helen Mirren won an Oscar for her depiction of her in 2006's The Queen. Claire Foy, Olivia Colman and Imelda Staunton portrayed her on Netflix's Emmy-winning The Crown.
Elizabeth Alexandra May Windsor was born in London on April 21, 1926. Her father would ascend the throne, becoming King George VI, in 1936 following the abdication of his brother, Edward VIII. In 2013, Elizabeth received an honorary BAFTA for her patronage of the U.K. film and TV industry.
During World War II, she served in the Auxiliary Territorial Service, the women's branch of the British Army, training as a lorry driver and mechanic. In 1947, she married Philip Mountbatten, a former prince of Greece and Denmark, whom she'd first met in 1934. The couple would become the longest-serving royal consort in history, and were married for 70 years.
Her tenure oversaw decades of dramatic change across the world and at home. Many nations removed her as head of state as they sought independence and transition to republic. The queen's reign also saw a revolution within the royal family itself.
In April 2021, she laid Philip, her husband of 73 years, to rest in a televised ceremony attended by family and friends. Surviving members of the royal family include Charles, Anne, William, Harry, Beatrice, Eugenie, Louise and James.