The Probe Investigation continues...

The press statement was titled – No data has leaked from Co-WIN portal. The entire Data stored on Co-WIN is safe and secure on this digital platform.

Mentioning the media reports, the press release stated: “There have been several media reports claiming that the data stored in the Co-WIN portal has been leaked online. It is clarified that no data has leaked from Co-WIN portal and the entire data of residents is safe and secure on this digital platform”.

Almost misleadingly, the government started talking about Co-WIN while in actuality, most of the breached data was linked to the S3WaaS framework.

The ministry further clarified, “While Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare will enquire into the substance of the news, prima facie the assertion is not correct, as Co-WIN collects neither the address of the person nor the RT-PCR test results for COVID-19 vaccination”.

According to Duggal, we only have limited remedies under the Information Technology Act, 2000. “If you find that your data has been breached and if you know the entity from which the data has been breached, then you can sue the entity for damages and compensation. For sensitive personal data, you can sue for limited damages and compensation; if it is non-sensitive personal data, then you can sue under certain circumstances for 5 crore rupees under section 43 of the IT Act, 2000. That apart, the victim can also file a criminal complaint or file an FIR against the entity under the current laws, but the fact is that the government is pretty much in a handicapped position when it comes to dealing with breaches of cyber security because our laws are not strong enough.”

But what recourse does one have when the breach comes from the government itself that is bound to protect the safety and security of its citizens?

According to Ashok Kumar Mohan, Assistant Professor at TIFAC-CORE Centre for Cyber Security at Amrita University, strong laws are the need of the hour.

To be continued...