Delegates and political leaders all across the world are unquestionably wealth accumulation due to their greatness. Some politicians come from royal families and receive leadership roles, while others are businesspeople who make it from poverty to wealth. Here are some wealthiest politicians in the world as of 2022, per Forbes.

Vladimir Putin
Russian politician Vladimir Putin was born in the Soviet Union. Putin is currently in the second year of his term as Russian president. Putin has developed a very contentious image over the years.
Vladimir Putin is the richest politician in the world as of July 2022, with a net worth of almost $70 billion.

Michael Bloomberg
Former New York City mayor and founder of Bloomberg LP, Michael Bloomberg is a well-known American politician and businessman. He owns a majority stake in the company.
Michael Bloomberg is currently the second-richest politician in the world, with a net worth of $56 billion as of July 2022.

Maha Vajiralongkorn
Thai Crown Prince Maha Vajiralongkorn takes the third position. After completing his training with the British, Australian, and American armed forces, Maha Vajiralongkorn received his degree from the Royal Military College. He currently holds the third-highest political fortune in the world.
Around $30 billion is the estimated value of Maha Vajiralongkorn's assets.. 

 Sheikh Mansour bin Zayed Al Nahyan
A politician and businessman from the United Arab Emirates, Shaikh Mansour bin Zayed Al Nahyan was born in the United States in November 1970. Al Nahyan, who has an ancestry with his half-brother Khalifa bin Zayed Nahyan, is the prime minister of the United Arab Emirates and the minister of presidential affairs.
Shaikh Mansour bin Zayed Al Nahyan's net worth was estimated to be around $30 billion as of July 2022.

Prince Alwaleed Bin Talal Alsaud
Born in Riyadh, Saudi Arabia, Prince Alwaleed Bin Talal Alsaud is a commercial tycoon, financier, and philanthropist. A member of the Saudi royal family, Talal Alsaud was named one of the Time 100 by Time Magazine.
The 20 Wealthiest Authors in the World
With a net worth of $20 billion, Prince Alwaleed Bin Talal Alsaud ranks fifth among the world's richest politicians.