Ex-ZONE members Miyawaki Sakura and Kim Chae-won will reportedly debut in the first girl group under HYBE this May.

As reported by News I on March 21st, HYBE's first girl group, which includes Sakura and Kim Chae-won, will be launched this upcoming May. The group is speeding up the process by focusing on practice and preparations for their highly anticipated debut.

Recently, Sakura and Kim Chae-won officially signed exclusive contracts with Source Music, a label under HYBE, raising fans' expectations for their second debut after IZ*ONE. What makes Sakura and Kim Chae-won's next girl group draw attention is that it is going to be the first-ever girl group HYBE produces and releases. Currently, fromis_9 is the only girl group that is active under HYBE after moving to one of its subsidiaries, Pledis. The upcoming lineup of rockie female idols including Sakura and Kim Chae-won is expected to gain attention from both domestic and international fans, because they are the first girl group to be born in the global reputation of HYBE's boy groups namely BTS, TXT, and ENHYPEN. In addition, both Sakura and Kim Chae-won are former members of IZ*ONE and already have strong fandoms, so they have great competitiveness from their debut. The two were active in IZ*ONE for 2.5 years and received support from fans all over the world, including Korea and Japan. Earlier, after the contract with Source Music was announced, Sakura and Kim Chae-won shared their thoughts on Instagram, announcing that they were working hard on preparing for a girl group. Sakura said, "I'm working hard every day in a very good environment by meeting warm staff who help me out. I hope to meet you soon, and I'm working hard to show you a better side." Kim Chae-won also said, "We've worked hard to show you our improvement as much as you've waited. So please look forward to it and we'll show you a lot of good things in the future." epiganx Hybe's Chairman Bang Si-hyuk also posted photos taken with the two on his Instagram, raising curiosity about the girl group to be born in the future.