The global average temperature has risen around 1°C since pre-industrial times. This magnitude and rate of warming cannot be explained by natural variations alone and must necessarily take into account changes due to human activities. Emissions of greenhouse gases (GHGs), aerosols 
and changes in land use and land cover (LULC) during the industrial period 
have substantially altered the atmospheric composition, and consequently the planetary energy balance, and are thus primarily responsible for the present-day climate change. Warming since the 1950s has already contributed to a significant increase in weather and climate extremes globally (e.g., heat waves, droughts, heavy precipitation, and severe cyclones), changes in precipitation and wind patterns (including shifts in the global monsoon systems), warming and acidification of the global oceans, melting of glacier, rising sea levels, and changes in marine and terrestrial ecosystems. In terms of water resource ,water quality is impacted by changing precipitation and temperature resulting from climate change. Changes in water resources may affect chemical 
composition of water in rivers and lakes.

The greenhouse effect is a natural process that plays a major part in shaping 
the earth’s climate. It produces the relatively warm and hospitable 
environment near the earth’s surface where humans and other life-forms 
have been able to develop and prosper. However, the increased level of 
greenhouse gases (GHGs) (carbon dioxide (CO2), water vapor (H2O), methane (CH4), nitrous oxide (N2O), hydrofluorocarbons (HFCs), perfluorocarbons (PFCs), and sulfur hexafluoride (SF6) etc) due to anthropogenic activities has contributed to an overall increase of the earth’s 
temperature, leading to a global warming. The average global surface temperature have increased by 0.74 oC since the late 19th Century and is 
expected to increase by 1.4 oC -5.8 oC by 2100 AD with significant regional variations (IPCC,2007). The atmospheric CO2 concentration has 
increased from 280 ppm to 395 ppm, CH4 concentration increased from 715 ppb to 1882 ppb and N2O concentration from 227 ppb to 323 ppb from the year 1750 and 2012.  

According to the fifth report of Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC, 2013), the average maximum and minimum temperatures 
over land have increased worldwide by an excess of 0.1 °C per decade
since 1950.