Real Madrid without a doubt is one of the most dominant football clubs the world of football has ever seen. The club has managed to achieve several incredible feats in its glorious history so far. Filled with immensely talented players over the past numerous years, the club has always been a strong contender to win any tournament that it's been a part of in recent times. 
Carlo Ancelotti who took over the coaching duties of the team for the second time in 2021 Achieved some unbelievable results against the odds. He lead Madrid to a fantastic La Liga win and in addition to it he also helped the side win the Champion's league after 4 long years. 
It's time for us to have a look at the team's SWOT (2022-23). 
Strengths:
Filled with a high amount of quality players in the side, Real Madrid have looked absolutely spot on in the last year. The team has been able to execute all their plans with total efficiency and barely faced any problems even under tough situations. The midfield in particular is something which has helped the team choke the opposition on a number of occasions. 
Loaded with players like Luka Modric, Toni Kroos and many more in the position, Real Madrid have never found it difficult to create chances for themselves. The team has developed enormous defensive depth too under Carlo Ancelotti with players like Antonio Rudiger, David Alaba, Dani Carvajal, Eder Militao and many more. 
To talk about the attackers up front, world-class players like Karim Benzema, Vinicius Jr and Fede Valverde have been at the top of their game for the team. Thus the team is possibly the most complete side in all aspects currently amongst all the rest clubs.
Weaknesses:
Despite being probably the best football club in the world, Real Madrid too is filled with a certain amount of weaknesses. The team lacks a backup striker which might prove to be a concern for the team anytime. Karim Benzema who has been the hero for his team for the past several seasons has turned 34 now and has also sustained an injury already this season early on.