President Joe Biden made good on his promise to nominate the first Black female justice to the Supreme Court when he announced that Judge Ketanji Brown Jackson was his choice on Feb. 25, 2022. Jackson is currently a judge on the U.S. Court of Appeals for the D.C. Circuit, where she was one of President Biden’s first judicial nominees. We asked Alexis Karteron, director of the Constitutional Rights Clinic at Rutgers University Law School and a former senior attorney at the New York Civil Liberties Union, to give us her impressions of the nomination.

What were your first thoughts when you saw that President Biden had chosen Judge Ketanji Brown Jackson for nomination to the Supreme Court?

There are not that many Black women lawyers in the United States. We’re only about 2% of our profession. Having been in that position of being in a very small club of Black women who attend law school and become lawyers, I’m pretty excited to see one of us ascend to the very top of the profession and be nominated to join the Supreme Court.

Beyond that, I’m excited to see her nominated because I think she has a wealth of experience and a unique background professionally that I believe could only benefit the court’s decision-making. She’s the first person to be nominated to the court who has been a criminal defense attorney since Justice Thurgood Marshall was on the court, and he’s been off the court over 30 years now.

She is supremely qualified. She has not just an elite education – she went to Harvard for both college and law school – she clerked for the retiring justice whose place she will take, Stephen Breyer. Beyond that, she has been in private practice, she’s been on the U.S. Sentencing Commission and she’s been both a trial court and appellate judge. So she’s seen the profession from a variety of perspectives that will inform her decisions.

Read full-story at The Conversation:
https://theconversation.com/biden-nominates-ketanji-brown-jackson-to-the-supreme-court-7-questions-answered-177973

Image Credits:
https://www.gettyimages.com/detail/news-photo/ketanji-brown-jackson-nominee-to-be-u-s-circuit-judge-for-news-photo/1232576995?adppopup=true