The Congress is likely to consider some leaders of the group of 23 dissenters (G-23) while finalising its names for the June 10 elections to 57 Rajya Sabha seats spread across 15 states.

The Congress is expected to win around 10-11 of these seats.

The party is likely to accommodate Ghulam Nabi Azad, Anand Sharma and Mukul Wasnik, all three members of G-23, from different states. 

Azad could be given from either Jharkhand or Rajasthan while Sharma might be fielded from either Haryana or Chhattisgarh. 

Wasnik is likely to be nominated from Maharashtra. 

While Jairam Ramesh is likely to be nominated from Karnataka, former finance minister P Chidambaram is expected to be fielded from Tamil Nadu where the ruling Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK) has agreed to leave one seat for the Congress.

Wasnik is set to resign from the general secretary's post as per a norm in the Udaipur declaration that specified no office bearer will hold the post after over five years. He has been holding the general secretary's post for over 24 years. 

In Haryana, the consent of former chief minister Bhupinder Singh Hooda is imperative for the party to ensure the victory of its candidate. He is in favour of nominating an outsider from the state and Azad is said to be his first choice followed by Sharma. However, he will also fully back any other leader the Congress high command decides to field from Haryana. Hooda, an influential Jat leader, has been arguing that the party should field a non-Jat and a non-Dalit face since the state unit chief Ajay Bhan is a Dalit and he himself is the Congress Legislature Party (CLP) leader. 

Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot is unlikely to object to Congress general secretary Randeep Singh Surjewala's name from his state. However, state Congress leaders are opposing the move, insisting that the party has already accommodated several Jats in the government and the organisation.

Former union minister and Rajput leader Jitendra Singh is in contention for one of the seats from Rajasthan. 

Congress general secretary Ajay Maken could also be considered to accommodate a member of the Punjabi community.