By Kingshuk Nag

Subhas Chandra Bose is said to have perished in an air crash in 1945, about eighty years ago. So, why discuss him nearly 80 years hence? What could emerge out of such a discussion?

Some of the facts that have emerged on Netaji over the years have the potential of altering Indian history around the time of freedom and the early years of the Indian Republic as we know it.

Even when it is widely believed that Netaji had died in 1945, he had broadcast on shortwave radio four times in 1945-46 and addressed Indians, where he declared his intention of leading an army into India. At the time of his broadcasts, Netaji was ‘officially’ dead. The records of the broadcasts have been lying with the National Archives since the time the files were declassified in 2015. The Intelligence Bureau intercepted Netaji’s broadcasts in Governor’s House, Calcutta. The records in files no 87011 p1692 were kept in the Prime Minister’s Office before the declassification.

His first broadcast under shortwave 19 – was on December 26, 1945. He said: “I am at present under the shelter of the great world powers. My heart is bleeding for India. I will go to India under the crest of the Third World War, which may be in ten years or before. Then I will sit in judgement on those trying my men at Red Fort”. However, the transmitters that relayed Netaji’s speech were weak because of poor technology then and could not reach a broad spectrum of the audience then.

The second time Netaji spoke was a week later, on January 1, 1946. He said: “We must get freedom within two years. The British Imperialism has broken down, and it must concede independence to India. India will not be free by non-violence”.

The third time Netaji spoke was in February 1946. He said: “This is Subhas Chandra Bose speaking. Jai Hind. This is the third time I am addressing my Indian brothers. 

Read the full story here:- https://theprobe.in/subhas-chandra-bose-material-evidence-suggests-netaji-lived-for-many-more-years-than-officially-acknowledged/