Bacha Bazi which translates to dancing boys is an old practice by some wealthy men in power in some parts of Afghanistan. Bacha Bazi exists as a sexual companionship between powerful men and their conscripts (young boys). Boys as young as ten are forced to sell their bodies and their dancing skills to meet their families ‘financial’ needs. Powerful men target handsome young boys from poor families, make them dress up as females, wear makeup, and dance in men’s parties. Some of these boys are taken from their families in promise of work, education or a better life. Unfortunately, their families are not aware of the fact that they are being sexually exploited as sex slaves.
 
When these boys reach the age of nineteen or when their beard begins to show, they are released by their owners and are simply expected to carry on with their lives. However, the psychological damage caused by years of sexual abuse and social isolation makes it difficult to reintegrate with society.
 
Afghan society is a highly patriarchal society where men can get whatever they want. Bacha Bazi is one of many examples of how Afghanistan would look like if it is to run only by men. While Bacha Bazi is illegal in Afghanistan nobody raises their voice against the practice, because of the shame associated to it. It is funny how society blames the victims rather than the perpetrator. Even when Taliban were in power the first time they tried to curb the practice of Bacha Bazi by punishing and sometimes executing the victims rather than the perpetrators!
 
Some reports says the tight gender segregation in Afghan society and a lack of contact with women have contributed to the spread of Bacha Bazi but I don’t agree with this at all, it has got nothing to do with gender but patriarchy as a whole. The whole perception of women being ‘confined’ to their homes or being “allowed” outside of their homes is patriarchal in every sense. Men not knowing how to behave have got nothing to do with women!
 
To be continue....