Roger Federer’s more than two decade long professional career will finally come to an end with his appearance at the Laver Cup this weekend. Over the years his success on court has transcended him to become a worldwide icon. He has amassed more than $130 million in prizemoney earnings and over $1 billion in endorsements throughout his career. That has brought his 2022 net worth to a whopping $550 million.
Prize Money
For most of the early part of this century Roger led the ATP prize money leaderboard. Only recently have Novak Djokovic and Rafael Nadal taken over from the Swiss superstar. Federer has won 103 titles over his career, second only to Jimmy Connors. He has regularly featured in
Forbes’ list of highest paid athletes and was the first tennis player to lead that table.
Endorsements and Investments
A major portion of Federer’s sizable net worth comes from his long term endorsement deals with major brands around the world. He was named the most Marketable Sportsman in 2017 by a
London group of researchers.
Rolex was one of the first brands to endorse Roger, a deal that was worth $15 million. Nike’sdeal with the 41-year-old was for more than $10 million annually. But upon its expiry in 2018, Japanese company Uniqo signed Federer to be their ambassador for $300 million over a 10year contract. His contract with Mercedes China was expanded globally in 2010. That current deal stands at $5 million of annual income. Other brands he endorses include Credit Suisse, Lindt, Sunrise, Jura Elektroapparate etc. Federer is also a minority investor in On, a shoe company from Switzerland.
All of this is evidence that Roger Federer has become a brand in itself. In 2020 he acquired the rights of his ‘RF’ logo from Nike. Even with his retirement his $550 million of net worth will only go higher because of his long term deals with brands. Although much of his monetary
achievements have been dedicated to the Roger Federer Foundation that does charity work with all over the world, specifically with children in Africa.