Manchester United suffered a horrible setback with Fred and McTominay out injured, and Pogba out with an injury and there are rumors that he won’t play for the rest of the season. Plus, Nemanja Matic announced his departure. One can clearly notice that Man Utd are screaming out  for midfield reinforcements. Last season, Ole Gunnar Solskjaer was supposed to bring a defensive midfielder to stop the leaking of goals which cost him the Europa League final and the Premier League title, but instead, the club  bought Jadon Sancho, Raphael Varane and Cristiano Ronaldo.

This season after humbling 4-0 and 2-0 defeats at the hands of Liverpool and Manchester City and  Ole getting fired, Manchester United are fighting for a Europa League place. Incoming boss Erik Ten Hag has a few midfielders in his mind, but United have themselves a hidden gem who will solve the midfield issues for the next 5 to 7 years. His name is James Garner.

 

The Englishman who is part of the Manchester United academy, started as a center-back before transitioning to a midfield role. He joined Watford in September 2020, but after Xisco Munoz became the head coach, his loan contract was terminated in January 2021.

Nottingham Forest jumped at the chance to take him on loan for the reminder of the 2020-21 season. In the 2021-22 season, they decided to bring him in again for a one year loan.

During his U-23 days, he usually played deep in the midfield position, operating as a deep playmaker, while marauding the defense.

Since he joined Watford and Nottingham Forest, he has been shifted to a box to box midfield position with the freedom to pass, take shots, do defensive duties and create chances.

Garner’s heatmap shows that he has been active all over the pitch, whether it be creating chances or defending in his half or putting pressure in the middle third or the attacking third, he covers every inch of the pitch. Garner has the license to roam all over the pitch, whether it may be attacking or defending or creating chances. He is not bound by any zones