Rukmini Devi Arundale (1904-1986), a prominent Bharatnatyam dancer, is credited with the resurrection of the Bharatnatyam dance form and, more importantly, for making the dance, which was formerly considered a Devdasi specialty, mainstream and respectable in society. She  was the founder of Kalakshetra, is credited with giving Bharatanatyam makeover from sensuous art form to more spiritual & devotional character.She was the first woman in Indian history to be nominated as a member to the Rajya Sabha, the  charismatic lady could have been India’s first female president had she accepted an offer 
Rukmini Devi was born in Madurai, the daughter of Nilakant Sastri, a well-known Sanskrit scholar and theosophist. Rukmini Devi grew up in a family rich in culture and education, and she longed to be a musician. She traveled around the world after marrying the British theosophist Dr. George Arundale, meeting and sharing ideas with other theosophists.
Bharatanatyam, or Sadir as it was originally known, was going through a difficult period. The anti-nautch movement of the late 19th and early 20th centuries tried to eradicate the Indian dancing girl culture. As patronage dwindled, devadasis turned to prostitution for a living. In their minds, it was a stride toward independence, but in reality, it damaged their reputation.
Sadir was scrutinized for its eroticism, but with Rukmini Devi's guidance, it was transformed from a sensual art form to a more spiritual and religious one.
Rukmini Devi's legacy lingers on long after her death, as she was born on a unique leap year day on February 29, 1904. Her impact to the performing arts business is unparalleled, and the constraints of caste and community that she broke cannot be overlooked. Kalakshetra, the institute she created, has achieved international acclaim and has become synonymous with all things "classical" in India.
She introduced musical instruments like violin, designed costumes and jewelery, and established set and lighting design elements, thereby completely revamping the dance form into its modern avatar.
She collaborated with noted dancers, classical musicians, and scholars to develop dance-dramas based on Indian epics and mythology like 'Sita Swayamvaram', 'Sri Rama Vanagamanam', 'Paduka Pattabhishekam' and 'Sabari Moksham'.