Mumbai City FC continue to surprise football fans across the continent with their Asian Champions League (ACL) performance. Considered rank outsiders even by their own supporters back home, the Indian Super League (ISL) side not only registered the first win by an Indian team in the prestigious meet when they beat Iraq Air Force Club, but logged another point in their latest outing by holding mighty Al Jazira club of UAE. It’s certainly a highly encouraging performance as ACL is Asia’s best tournament played by top clubs from Japan, South Korea, Iran, Iraq, Saudi Arabia, UAE etc. When the Asian Football Confederation (AFC) announced to give Indian clubs direct entry into the ACL a couple of years ago, the decision was widely regarded a purely political one to appease a powerful lobby in Indian football. Mumbai City FC, one has to admit, have proved the critics wrong with their spirited display.
Last season, FC Goa participated in the ACL and bagged three points from three drawn outings. They were lauded for their showings, but it was also pointed out that FC Goa played on their home turf and the other teams’ subdued display was partly because of the prevailing Covid 19 situation then. But no such arguments will hold good against Mumbai City. In the match against Al Jazira, Mumbai goalkeeper Phurba Lachenpa was the hero with some incredible saves. When he was fielded in the first match, which Mumbai lost by three goals, chief coach Des Buckingham was heavily criticized for the move. Lachenpa was described as a rookie, who didn’t have enough experience to adjust himself to Asia’s top tournament. Buckingham, however, had the last laugh.
While Lachenpa did a brilliant job under the bar, Mumbai City FC, with little more luck, could have walked out with full points. In the closing stages of the game, their Brazilian striker Diego Mauricio was through on goal but couldn't break the deadlock as his shot was saved by goalkeeper Ali Khasif. At the moment, with four points, Mumbai City FC are still in contention for a place in the second round.