The RBI's Liberalized Remittance Scheme (LRS) will be your one-stop shop for all your foreign exchange concerns, whether you're thinking about investing abroad or travelling
abroad
The Five things we should remember before investing are:
1. Buying dollars in India
To invest or spend abroad, one must first convert Indian rupees into US dollars for any international transaction. Such transactions are subject to the Liberalized Remittance Scheme's regulations (LRS). Simply said, if you live in India, you must purchase dollars from an authorised dealer (the bank) using Indian rupees (INR). The money can then be used to buy property or other assets like equity shares by sending it abroad or spending it there.
2. Maximum dollars that you can remit abroad
Any resident person, even a juvenile (countersigned by a guardian), is currently permitted to remit up to 2.5 lakh US dollars (USD 2,50,000) in any financial year under the LRS guidelines. It is equivalent to roughly Rs 2,00,000 or Rs 2 crore at the current exchange rate of Rs 80 to $1. The number of transactions allowed each year is not limited.
3. Dollars allowed to carry abroad
If you are going on an international trip with the family, the 'foreign exchange facility' will determine whether you will be allowed to carry dollars. The person is required to keep their currency usage to a maximum of USD 2,50,000. If you are making a private visit to any country except Nepal and Bhutan, you can use your credit card on spending and ATM cash withdrawals if the card allows international transactions.
4.Buying US stocks, opening a foreign bank account
The IDS regulations will classify any investments you make in stocks, real estate, or other assets abroad as capital account transactions. According to LRS regulations, only specific capital account transactions are permitted.
5.Income, dividends earned abroad
The LRS laws permit an investor to keep and reinvest income received in the foreign country if they have made investments in shares and mutual fund schemes there (as long as it is not an offshore direct investment). The investor is not required to bring back any accrued interest or  savings and investments.