By Sanjay Kapoor

Contrary to expectations, Russian national day celebrations in Delhi were awash with people and merriment. The tastefully illuminated embassy at Delhi’s Chanakyapuri betrayed no signs of the Western sanctions except that a clutch of their diplomats did not show up. However, there were people from all walks of life that came to express solidarity with Russia. It was apparent that notwithstanding the sanctions, Russia was in business.

It was possible to spot diplomats from all the non-European countries, but those who really showed thunderous support were Indians, including many ruling party faithful, public sector executives and businessmen who traded with Russia when the Rupee-Rouble arrangement existed between the two countries to beat the Western sanctions.

Now with the return of the sanctions against the Russians and the possibility that their ample services would be needed by Moscow, these people who prospered in the 80’s and 90’s are back in the hunt. Many of them trade the usual tea, tobacco and tannery goods. Yashwant Place in Delhi was the beneficiary of this Rupee-Rouble system, but when the Soviet Union collapsed, so did the fortunes of this market.

There are expectations that this time, the range of products that would be needed from the Indian market would be far more. If there is any merit in Russian President Vladimir Putin’s assertion that Indian retail chains would be opened up in Moscow and other cities, then the exposure of Indian businesses to the sanctioned country would be considerable.

Reports suggest that Reliance and Adani could open some retail outlets in Russia. This display of spine stems from the support Russia enjoys in India. Its precursor state, the Soviet Union, had stood by New Delhi in every crisis. It provided weapons and its veto in the security council in wars and conflicts with neighbouring countries. No other country has come to the country’s rescue as Moscow has. This fact is not forgotten, which has allowed the government of Narendra Modi to increase its purchase of oil and coal after the conflict. 

Read the full story here:- https://theprobe.in/big-indian-businesses-benefit-from-sanctions-on-russia/