With an English exam ongoing  a news started circulating about how Taliban had reached down to Kabul. The panic spread among the students and Yamna who was one among the students who coupdnt complete the exam paper and never came back to school. 

16 year old Yamna has barely left her home for the past six months and she shares that she feels very low and still wonders if she can complete her studies or what job opportunity she can look forward in her country which is ruled by a conservative, male only government. 

From August, the girls of secondary school from grade 7  above were banned from getting education. The Talibans claim that the restrictions are temporary, they claim that they want to create an islamic environment for girls, in the world Afghanistan is the only country that restricts girls from education. 

Kabul pharmacist Mohammed Mohibullah says that while the overall sales of antidepressants and sleeping pills have gone down, the number of women buying such medication has increased. “Since the Taliban’s takeover, it has been mostly peaceful. The war has stopped and there have been fewer attacks. But what I’m noticing now is a sharp rise in women asking for antidepressants, stress relievers or sleeping pills, even without a specific prescription. They are under a lot of pressure. While many men tell me they feel more at ease compared to before, it is the opposite for women and girls.” 

Across the country, the rights and aspirations of an entire generation of girls are dismissed and crushed. 

The rights and aspirations of an entire girl generation is endangered as they are denied their rights. 

Medical professionals in the country warn they are seeing a rise in depression among teenage girls. “Afghans – especially girls who have been at home for the past months – are confronted with an even more uncertain future than before. For many, this has fostered stress and hopelessness, which has caused depression to rise", says psychologist Rohullah Rezvani

“People will admit to ‘having problems’ and might even take medication to calm stress levels, but that’s about it,” Rezvani says. 

Sources - https://www.theguardian.com/global-development/2022/mar/10/robbed-of-hope-afghan-girls-denied-an-education-struggle-with-depression