Raheem Sterling, born and brought up in Jamaica, having Jamaican descent but moved to London at the tender age of 5, represents the England National team. He began his career for Queens Park Rangers before signing for Liverpool in 2010. He won the golden boy award in 2014. However, in the next year due to contract dispute, he signed for Manchester City. 


He plays as a winger, a striker or attacking midfielder, however he is more comfortable as a winger. He is known for his blistering pace, coupled with a low center of gravity and ability to dribble past opponents at ease.


Despite his small stature, he possesses upper body strength which helps him in fending off the opponents and retaining possession. He is known for putting defenders take back steps due to his raw and fast speed.


He has scored 109 goals in his 13 year tenure. He crossed his 100 goal mark while playing for the sky blue of Manchester. 



Gabriel Jesus, who is of Brazilian descent, was born and brought up in Sao Paolo. He joined an amateur club in his region Associação Atlética Anhanguera, which was the last of his clubs there. He  began his early footballing career like other Brazilian players in Brazil. He joined the youth academy of Palmeiras. After winning a couple of accolades with his team, he garnered the attention of Manchester City who sweeped down on him and got their man in 2017.


His primary position is of a versatile striker, but he has been deployed by Pep Guardiola as a False 9,as a center-forward,as an out-and-out striker,as an inside forward, as a winger, as a attacking midfielder. He has been touted by Brazilian Legend Ronaldo to be the future superstar of Brazil. 


In 2019, he opted for the switch to wing, but he acknowledges there might be competition from Bernando Silva.


He is known for his speed, his technical ability, his dribbling prowess, his work ethic, creativity and his ability to finish. Pep Guardiola likes to choose players, who can run with speed and ability to score goals. 


His iconic celebration is ‘Alo Mae’ which translates to ‘Hello Mother’.