Goalkeeper

Aaron Ramsdale (GK) 6/10 –He made two significant stops to halt Odsonne Edouard and Eberechi Eze, but lacked poise while in control.

Defenders

Ben White (RB) 5/10 – White started well against Wilfried Zaha, but the Ivorian finally got the best of him and he was booked.

William Saliba (CB) 9/10 – It was nothing short of amazing to make your Premier League debut with that kind of performance in a setting like Selhurst Park. 

Gabriel (CB) 5/10 –Although aggressive, he occasionally appeared a touch frazzled, especially when Palace went long.

Oleksandr Zinchenko (LB) 7/10 – Brilliant in the opening period as he recorded his first Arsenal assist. His physical and athletic limitations, nevertheless, were apparent in the second quarter.

Midfielders

Thomas Partey (DM) 6/10 –  Partey performed his job and did a good job of screening the defense on Friday night, but he wasn't particularly outstanding.

Granit Xhaka (CM) 7/10 – He got off to a good start, picking up his first booking of the season with a dive. Wasn't hesitant to contribute at a higher level either.

Martin Odegaard (CM) 5/10 –Despite still being allergic to his right foot, he produced several exquisite touches but he started to lose steam significantly in the second half.

Forwards

Bukayo Saka (RW) 7/10 – He was threatening when attacking open after the restart and appeared sharp for the first 45 minutes. Had a major role in the second goal.

Gabriel Jesus (ST) 7/10 – In the first minutes, Jesus had a fiery start and came dangerously close to scoring a Goal of the Season candidate. 

Gabriel Martinelli (LW) 7/10 – With a close-range header, quickly made up for his early error. He was lively the entire time, and I felt his pressing was great.

Substitutes

Kieran Tierney 6/10 – After a long period of pressure from the hosts, he assisted Arsenal in regaining control late in the game.

Eddie Nketiah 6/10 – With a clever turn and pass under pressure on the outside of the Palace box, he demonstrated that he can be just as dynamic as Jesus.

Sambi Lokonga – N/A