It's improbable that flagship phone prices would ever decrease because they are now higher than ever. To avoid having to purchase a new phone as often as possible is one reason to spend this much on a phone. These smartphones are all fast enough to keep up with your daily activities and have excellent cameras, screens, and battery life. Additionally, they will typically receive five years' worth of software updates, compared to three years for cheaper phones. 

Find the one that works best for you, and you'll have many years of use before you need to start looking for a new phone.

1. Apple iPhone 13
The iPhone 13 has a new A15 Bionic chip, an OLED display, 128GB of internal storage, and support for all 5G networks. It starts at $799 with activation or $829 unlocked. available in pink, red, white, teal, green, black, and teal.

2. Samsung Galaxy S22 Plus
The Galaxy S22 Plus has a cutting-edge Snapdragon CPU, a fantastic 6.6-inch display, three back cameras, one of which is a 3x telephoto, and a solid service policy that guarantees up to four generations of Android OS upgrades.

3. Apple iPhone 13 Pro and Pro Max
Both these phones share the same premium camera system, and have earned the spot of best phone for photography and videography for 2022. Apple's picture processing and the three back cameras—standard wide, ultrawide, and telephoto—work together to create amazing images, especially in low light. The 13 Pro is where you should spend your money if photo and video quality are your top priorities when purchasing a phone.

4. Google Pixel 6 Pro 
The Google Pixel 6 Pro is the more powerful sibling of the most recent Pixel duo. It has a 6.7-inch screen, 12GB of RAM, and a third camera with a 48 megapixel resolution and a 4x telephoto lens.

5. Apple iPhone 13 Mini
The iPhone 13 Mini is identical to its larger brothers in terms of both functionality and cameras, however it comes in a smaller size. The same A15 Bionic chip as other iPhone 13s, a 5.4-inch display, 128GB of storage, and a smaller battery are all present.