Other than causing merciless harm to animals, traditional leather production exploits the environment and the human rights of people living in the third world countries as well (I should totally make a post on that!).
So, here's four cruelty free and eco-friendly alternatives to replace leather!

Piñatex Leather:

Piñatex pineapple leather is made from the leftover sections of pineapple trees and is 100 percent vegan, entirely eco-friendly, and ethical because it allows pineapple farmers to sell an otherwise unusable part of their produce for a profit. Piñatex is a waterproof and protective plant-based leather that feels just like animal leather.


Mushroom Leather:

This plant-based leather can be grown in any shape or size that is required. It's biodegradable and environmentally friendly. According to tests, mushroom eco-friendly leather replacements beat leather in terms of strength and durability while matching leather in terms of aesthetics. Furthermore, its earthy tone makes it a sophisticated choice for smart handbags or classic boho-chic sandals.


Leaf Leather:

Leaf Leather is manufactured from sustainably sourced Teak leaves that have been braided with fabric and sealed to protect the natural beauty of the product. If you're still looking for a favourite vegan leather, this is a one-of-a-kind and completely eco-friendly option. This plant-based leather is manufactured using an ancient Asian technique for waterproofing roofs and furniture, and it can be used to make everything from handcrafted leaf leather wallets to bigger tote bags.


Cactus Leather:

Desserto, a Mexican firm, debuted the world's first cactus plant-based leather in 2019. Nopal cactus leaves are used to create a convincing and entirely sustainable imitation leather in the newest eco-friendly leather alternative. Because this adaptable material is soft enough for furniture but tough enough for a trusty purse, it has gotten a lot of attention, including a mention in Vogue Australia's assessment of RawAssembly, a sustainable fashion conference.