The family of Danish Siddiqui, a Pulitzer Prize-winning news photographer killed in Afghanistan last year, has called on the International Criminal Court to investigate his murder and prosecute Taliban leaders for war crimes and crimes against humanity.

Siddiqui, a 38-year-old Indian national, was killed on July 16 while accompanying an Afghan Special Forces unit in the Spin Boldak district, southeast of Kandahar city.

The call comes as several journalists, including two Americans, have been killed in recent weeks in the Ukraine war.

More than 500 journalists have been killed in the past decade, according to the Committee to Protect Journalists. Of these, 31 deaths have been reported in Afghanistan.

Former Afghan government officials told the Washington Post in 2020 that the Taliban were responsible for most of the targeted killings of journalists.

"Danish, our beloved son, was killed for his journalistic duties. He was brutally tortured and mutilated during his detention," said Akhtar Siddiqui, the father of an Indian journalist.

Mr. Siddiqui's father added that while his son was not returning, the lawsuit alleviated the family's grief. He said his family hopes that one day justice will be done for their child.
Danish Siddiqui explained on Twitter a few days before his death that his car had been attacked. He later posted a photo of himself resting after a "15-hour mission in a row."

The family petition cites reports from the Washington Examiner and the Indian press that Siddiqui was alive when he was captured and killed by the Taliban.
The request also refers to the New York Times, which claims that his body was mutilated during Taliban detention.

A Reuters report in August said Siddiqui had been killed after Afghan forces withdrew. According to Reuters, the Taliban denied that his body had been mutilated in custody.

Siddiqui, the father of two young children, was a well-known photographer known for his photographs of human suffering.

He was part of the Reuters Photographers team that won the 2018 Pulitzer Prize.

https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/parents-of-danish-siddiqui-killed-in-afghanistan-takes-taliban-leaders-to-icj-101647946861055.html