United finished outside of the UCL spot and they finished with the lowest points tally of 58 points. Their main man, the prodigal son Cristiano Ronaldo vowed to stick by United and help United get back to winning ways and securing a Champions League spot. But on the sudden turn of events, he chose not to visit the team on the Pre-season tour - citing family problems. 


Jorge Mendes’ client is less than happy to play in Europa League, and he wants Champions League football. The man who has been used to Champions League place since his early days at United, playing in the Europa League is bound to tarnish his image and legacy. 


He had been declining since his move to Juventus in 2018. Though from 2018-2021 he scored 101 goals in 134 appearances, becoming the top scorer of the last decade.

However, Juventus failed to make it past the round of 16, getting knocked out. It led Cristiano to move from Italy to England. He scored a total of 24 goals in 38 matches. Manchester United however finished sixth, a massive 38 points off title winners Manchester City. 


Ronaldo has been offered to big clubs like Bayern Munich, PSG, and Chelsea but he has been turned down by them. Cristiano is 37 years, next season he’ll be 38 and clubs are reluctant to buy him. Despite him being a freak of nature, by maintaining his physique, his age is in the decline.

However, his meeting with the boss has left him with less than positive, he wants to terminate his contract and look for a club providing UCL. He has been offered to Real’s arch-enemy Atletico, though the fans have turned down the proposition of having him. He has been offered to Napoli but on loan. 

He has requested the club to terminate his 360 million pounds contract. The man with 140 goals in Champions League, will fall from grace for him. As Ronaldo struggles to find a potential suitor who provides UCL, the transfer drama will continue to go on. Will Ronaldo don a new Jersey this season or he’ll help United reach Champions League place?