Durga Puja celebrations across West Bengal have brought a welcoming shift when it comes to the empowerment of women over the years. Kolkata’s new town community’s Sarbojanin Durga Puja is all set to have a team of all-women priests, drummers and performers for the festivities. The community’s initiative includes making more opportunities available for women during the festivities and helping spread the importance of women’s empowerment.In a first, a team of all women priests and drummers will be helming a major Durga Puja festivity in Kolkata’s new town community. The Puja will emphasise women empowerment and is looking to focus on the theme of ‘Mother Bengal’.Women Priests For Durga Puja At Kolkata’s New Town CommunityThe Puja will include four women priests and twelve drummers, also called Dhakis in the region. Not only this, but the performers during the occasion will also comprise all women.“All four priests of the puja are women, as are the twelve dhakis and around a dozen performers of Dhanuchi Naach,” the secretary of the Durga Puja committee Samaresh Das informed the media. The Dhanuchi Naach is an integral dance form performed during the aarti that is dedicated to Goddess Durga. The dancers perform to the beats of the drums while thanking the Goddess. Traditionally, years ago, this ritual used to be a men-only celebration.The ‘Banga Janani’ theme will bring to light the art and culture of the region, alongside honouring women priests through their rightful representation.Priest Dattatriya Ghoshal will be performing the puja this year according to the Vedic rituals, according to reports. Ghoshal has been a priest since 2018. Dattatriya Ghoshal, who has been a priest since 2018, will be performing the puja. She said that the puja will be according to the Vedic rituals.The Durga Puja festivities across the state have brought a refreshing new wave this year featuring diverse themes. From Pandals committees honouring sex workers to now Sarbojanin Durga Puja’s attempt to bring to light more women professionals to represent and participate in the festivities is a welcoming change that was a long time coming.Source: shethepeopletv