1. Our Blue
This heartwarming K-drama follows the ups and downs of a group of friends living on the breathtaking island of Jeju, which is located to the south of mainland South Korea. Through the show, viewers get a glimpse of the everyday lives of the inhabitants of this picturesque island. From awe-inspiring sunsets on golden beaches to boat rides in the turquoise sea, the drama unfolds in the paradisiac landscapes of Jeju.

2. Hometown cha-cha-cha
In Hometown Cha-Cha-Cha, Shin Min-a plays a dentist named Yoon Hye-jin who moves to the fictional seaside village of Gongjin to open her own clinic. The show was filmed in Pohang, a beautiful town located on the southeast coast of South Korea. This feel-good, romantic K-drama is set in the idyllic backdrop of this seaside village flanked by gorgeous beaches and charming lighthouses.

3. Crash landing on you
Crash Landing on You is the perfect watch if you fancy a trip to Switzerland. The K-drama follows the romance between a South Korean heiress (Yoon Se-ri played by Son Ye-jin) and a North Korean soldier (Captain Ri Jeong-hyeok played by Hyun Bin). While most of the show is set in Seoul and a fictional village in North Korea, viewers also get to see the stunning natural landscapes of Switzerland. The drama takes viewers to the Interlaken region of Switzerland, with key scenes set on Iseltwald's quaint pier as well as the nearby municipalities of Sigriswil and Lungern.

4. Guardian: The Lonely and Great God (Goblin) (2016)
This mystical K-drama tells the story of Kim Shin (Gong Yoo), an ​​immortal goblin in search of his bride as she is the only person who can help him break his 1000-year curse. Shin, a higher spiritual being with the power to teleport in the blink of an eye, chooses to travel to Quebec City in Canada. Viewers are treated to the magnificent cityscapes of Quebec City as the protagonists explore renowned sites such as the majestic Hotel Fairmont Le Château Frontenac and the Fontaine de Tourny among others.