By Tanzila Shaikh 

The brands’ obsession with immediate ROIs and gratification seems to be fading away as they start to believe more in the power of long-term brand building. 

Performance marketing, the preferred tool of brands to drive sales recently, isn’t the top choice of marketers anymore. 

Poor ROIs for most brands in terms of short-term gains is being said to be the top reason behind brands cutting their performance marketing budgets drastically. 

In a recent tweet, Gaurav Munjal said, “Took our Performance Marketing spends from 18 crores per month to 2 crores per month. No impact on Revenues.” This sparked a conversation among Twitterati and marketing enthusiasts.

While performance marketing has been used rigorously by companies to acquire new customers through publishers, wherein these companies pay heavy amounts of money to the publishers, brand building is something brands fail to pay heed to. 

Start-ups or new-age brands were preferring performance marketing as they are just starting with their brand-building journey.

Speaking on the reduction of money spent on performance marketing and the importance of brand building, Meenakshi Aggarwal Gupta - Co-Founder and COO- 4 AM Worldwide, said, “Efforts towards brand building lead to brand salience and reliability. They eventually help drive sales and profitability for a product or service. However, brand building is a long-term effort. It requires investment, and not just in terms of money, to define the brand strategy and hold on to the chartered course. Companies that have invested in brand building or have reached a certain level of salience can afford to reduce spending on performance marketing (PM) since the brand name itself can lead to sales.”

“Start-ups, especially funded start-ups need to demonstrate a certain ROI to their investors. Early wins and sales growth also reinforce stakeholder belief in the product or service. Hence start-ups need to invest in PM while simultaneously investing in brand-building efforts,” she added.

Read more
https://bestmediainfo.com/2022/07/performance-marketing-takes-a-back-seat-as-brands-focus-more-on-longterm-play