In Hollywood it is rare for two projects to adapted from the same material to get greenlit side by side, but now that they have, based on their trailers it is hard not to compare them. The projects in question are films based on Pinocchio .
 
Two radically different projects, one is a live action version created by Disney based on their 1940 animated film and will be directed by Robert Zemeckis while the other one will stream on Netflix and is directed by acclaimed director Guillermo Del Toro.
 
Disney’s Pinocchio is another in its long line of films to recreate the magic of its old acclaimed animated films in live action by trying to cash in on nostalgia by doing basically 100% copy with a few differences.
 
In contrast, Del Toro’s version is different. Featuring a darker tone compared to the Disney film, Del Toro’s film is set in 1930s Fascist Italy with the wood that Pinocchio is made from coming from a tree growing on the grave of Geppetto's late son. These differences play to Guillermo Del Toro's strengths, offering a darker take that will stand completely apart from all that has come before.
 
The visual styles between the two movies also couldn't be more different, and based on the trailers that have been released for both films, this may be a key factor attesting to their individual qualities.
 
 Disney version is live-action featuring CGI characters including Pinocchio, Jiminy Cricket, Honest John the fox etc. Disney's CGI constructed lifeless and soulless husk of Pinocchio sure is prime nightmare material.
 
In contrast, Del Toro’s version comprises stop motion animation, featuring both a much more emotional tone, and actually making Pinocchio an actual wooden boy. This really plays out like a tribute to the dedication and craftsmanship of Pinocchio’s father and creator Geppetto himself.
 
Disney remakes have only ever proven to be pale imitations of their original animated classics, in contrast, the creative freedom taken by Del Toro in reimagining the character’s story both narratively and visually from the trailer alone looks like a far more fruitful exercise.
 
 
 