Federal Labor is entering the election campaign home stretch armed with a promise of almost $1 billion in new Medicare and primary-health funding if it wins next weekend's federal poll, as both leaders prepare for a frenetic final week of campaigning.

The pledge consists of $750 million over three years for a new "Strengthening Medicare" fund which aims to improve patient access to GPs including after hours, decrease pressure on hospitals and better manage complex and chronic conditions.

It also includes $220 million for grants of up to $50,000 for GPs to train staff, upgrade IT telehealth systems, buy equipment and improve ventilation and infection control.

If Anthony Albanese wins on May 21, Labor will also create a Medicare task force that will be chaired by the health minister and include peak body groups such as the Australian Medical Association, Royal Australian College of GPs and the National Aboriginal Controlled Community Health Organisation.

"Every day, everywhere I go, people talk to me about how it's getting more and more difficult to see a doctor," Mr Albanese said.

"Australians trust their GPs. It's a vital relationship in ensuring all Australians get the quality healthcare they deserve."

The plan was immediately welcomed by Australian Medical Association (AMA) president Omar Khorshid who said it "put general practice on a pathway to a more sustainable future".

In 2019 Prime Minister Scott Morrison announced a 10-year Primary Healthcare Fund, but the AMA has accused the Coalition of stalling on the promise.

"The primary care fund announced today by the ALP, if implemented, is a strong down payment that will help realise the recently completed 10-year primary health care plan — a plan which has remained completely unfunded by the government," Dr Khorshid said.

"The ALP's primary care fund pledge will allow investment in programs that will improve access to services for patients including GP after-hours services and the Workforce Incentive Program. We welcome the ALP commitment to work with the AMA on the implementation of primary-care reform."

https://www.abc.net.au/news/2022-05-14/labor-promises-almost-1-billion-for-medicare-and-gps/101066662