Sometimes, with mass shooters, there is some doubt as to their motivation. What could possibly spur people on to so much hatred? In the case of the Buffalo shooting, there is no doubt. 

18 year old Payton Gendron left a manifesto, in which he clearly detailed the reason why he shot 13 people: it was "to kill as many blacks as possible." Gendron believed in the White Replacement Theory, the idea that a global cabal of elites was trying to destroy white populations and replace them with non-white people. 

The manifesto reveals that Gendron spent much time online, on websites like 4chan, that openly debate the genetic inferiority of other races and spread antiSemitism. White Replacement Theory has been the explicit motivation for over 160 murders, including Norway’s Anders Breivik’s slaughter of 77 people, and Dylann Roof’s mass murder of Black churchgoers in Charleston, South Carolina. 

While reading the news, I accidentally watched a little bit of the footage streamed by the Buffalo shooter. I wouldn't recommend it. It is horrifying viewing. The shooter says 'Sorry' when the gun is trained on a white man, and spares his life. 

The others in the supermarket are not spared: he massacres them with an AR-15 (a gun that no private citizen needs to own; there is absolutely no defence from a semiautomatic weapon of that power). 

If you read right-wing takes on it, they are predictable. "He was a lone wolf" "This racism and hate has no place in America" 

But Black people have been telling you that it is steadfastly, undeniably American. The Buffalo shooter's obsession with declining birth rates and the supposed "white genocide" that he believes is occurring has long been part of a certain mainstream narrative, one that has been pushed by outlets like Fox News and by Republican commentators such as Tucker Carlson. 

This is not a fringe America, this is the mainstream. The racism and hatred that spurred terrorists and white supremacists like Gendron are not alien to America, they have always existed there. Understanding this is key to ending them.