It was all going according to plan for Viera and Crystal Palace until a certain Erling Haaland announced his arrival at the Etihad in a grandstand fashion. In the recent past, the Etihad has been a good hunting ground for the Eagles from Selhurst Park. And it was deja vu for Guardiola and City as they found themselves in familiar territory like last season. 
Crystal Palace started off brightly and established an early lead in the first half. It went from bad to worse for the champions, as their struggles with dealing with set pieces again came back to haunt them. The first they conceded was comical, whereas the second was just lazy defending. 
Crystal Palace defended resolutely and looked threatening at counters, whereas City looked devoid of ideas for the entirety of the first half. Their clever players like De Bruyne, Foden, Silva, and Mahrez were not given the time or space to maneuver anything for their new marksman, Haaland. Guardiola and his boys were constantly forced to move the ball back or sideways because of Palace's press and high line.
In the second half, like in Newcastle, the champions turned it up a notch and produced one of their trademark comebacks. It was sparked into life by Bernado Silva, the Portuguese scored a tantalizing first and was heavily involved in all 4 City goals. But the stage was set for Erling Haaland to showcase his ridiculous goal-scoring ability. 
The Norwegian marked his arrival in the PL with a breath-taking brace at West Ham and an all-important second against Newcastle. 
Prior to his first goal against Palace, Haaland was just a mere spectator who was struggling to stamp his authority in the match. But City's new hitman showed his new fans just a glimpse of the future. 
The Norwegian's first two goals showed his exceptional poaching ability. And his third was a display of his physical strength and pace, as he tussled and bullied two Palace defenders before slotting it beyond Gueita's reach. This hattrick against Palace marks the 22-year-old's 13th of his career. As the champions started off their home campaign with a 4-2 win over Palace.