Yoga is growing more and more popular, with 36 million yogis now stretching out across the US.

There are so many advantages to practicing, such as improved mental clarity, better posture and a higher level of self-esteem.

However did you know yoga has specific benefits just for women? If you’re a woman considering taking up the practice then the list below might just convince you to get started:

1: HELPS DURING PREGNANCY AND LABOR -
Research has proven that practicing prenatal yoga can help throughout both pregnancy and labor.

A close look at all the findings in 2015 found that not only did it help with stress management and reducing pelvic pain, but it could also improve birth outcomes such as reducing delivery time.

You should however always check with a medical professional before starting to practice, as researchers noted that in rare cases yoga could cause uterine contractions.

2: IMPROVES YOUR SEX LIFE -
Yoga can mean even more fun in the bedroom! A study conducted in India focused on 40 healthy and sexually active women.

Following a 12 week yoga program, 75% of the participants said they were more satisfied with their sex life.

In fact they showed improvement in all six sexual functioning areas, including desire, lubrication, and orgasm.

Though the sample size was small, the results were overwhelmingly positive, particularly for women aged over 45. 

3: REDUCES THE SYMPTOMS OF PREMENSTRUAL SYNDROME -
An article published in the International Journal of Women’s Health and Reproduction Sciences highlights how powerful yoga can be for PMS.

Researchers focused on the emotional, behavioral and physical symptoms associated with premenstrual syndrome.

Improvements were seen in all three areas, with the study concluding that yoga should be recommended as a treatment option for those struggling with PMS.

4: IMPROVES SYMPTOMS OF THE MENOPAUSE
Studies have also focused on how yoga could help menopausal women cope with hot flashes.

54 perimenopausal and postmenopausal women made up the sample group, with each experiencing at least four hot flashes a day.


Sources - https://www.thegoodbody.com/benefits-of-yoga-for-women/