The Melbourne Vixens have completed an incredible final-quarter turnaround to down the GWS Giants by a single goal to reach next week's Super Netball grand final.

The Vixens trailed by nine goals at the three-quarter-time break, only to outscore the Giants 17-7 in the final term to complete a remarkable comeback.

"That was absolutely unbelievable," Vixens wing attack Liz Watson said.

"To see that fight and the hunger in the end, we knew we were going to go all the way to the end and I'm so excited about that."

The Vixens, who have gone from wooden spooners last season to minor premiers, will now head to Perth to face the West Coast Fever in the grand final next week.

"We've worked so hard all season which got us a double chance, which we obviously needed from last week's performance," Fowler said of the Fever's 71-62 victory in the semi-final.

"It would have been so disappointing if we'd bombed out today, so I'm so excited for next week."

In a fast and frenetic contest, the Vixens jumped into an early lead in front of a passionate home support in Melbourne, leading 15-7 at the first break.

However, Jo Harten and Sophie Dwyer kept the visitors in contention — and them some — with a flurry of super shots, scoring a combined 10 from 14 from the edge of the D.

The Giants outscored the Vixens 21-11 in the second quarter and 19-12 in the third.

But the relentless accuracy of goal-shooter Mwai Kumwenda and goal-attack Rahni Samason ensured the Vixens' extraordinary comeback.

A Kumwenda turnover almost cost the Vixens dear in the final minutes after Amy Sligar intercepted a wayward pass, but she was saved by a dramatic intercept up the other end by goal keeper Emily Mannix.

"It was such a team effort," player of the match Vixens goal defence Jo Weston said.

"I don't think any of our finals performances have been exactly what we would have liked in terms of being really dominant but throughout this season we've just shown that we can win no matter what and that definitely was an exceptional win.