United is one of the 4 clubs in England without any new signings, while sending 8 players out. 

Season is going in a very eventful manner for Manchester United. Exit of Ole Gunnar Solskjaer from head coach position, then the arrival of Ralf Rangnick, poor performances and now transfers. Other clubs without any new signings are Southampton, West Ham, and Norwich. By sending out 8, they collected 55.2 M Euros, top in list ahead of Tottenham (40 M), Burnley (25M), Everton (25M). 

Full list of players moving out from Old Trafford : 


Anthony Martial - Sevilla (loan)
Donny van de Beek - Everton (loan)
Amad Diallo- Rangers (loan)
Teden Mengi - Birmingham (loan)
Axel Tuanzebe - Napoli (loan)
Ethan Laird - Bournemouth (loan)
Reece Devine - Walsall (loan)
Matej Kovar - Burton Albion (loan)



The 26 -year-old Frenchman played 175 matches for United from 2015 to 2022. He has also scored 56 goals for the club. Recently there were allegations by Rangnick that Martial refused to play for United. For now, the loan period is 5months, till the end of the season. The drama started when Rangnick put the "for sale" tag on Martial, Pogba and Rashford. 

Van De Beek's move to Everton was confirmed hours before the closing of the transfer window. He has played just 19 matches this season (total 27)  after coming from Ajax in 2020. The Netherlands attacking player will be hoping to get more starts at Everton. 

19 year old Amad Diallo is a two footed Ivory Coast winger, fast and dynamic, who came from Atlanta to United in 2021. He played only 2 matches for United. 

There were rumours of Jesse Lingard moving but it didn't happen. Also, goalkeeper Dean Henderson wanted to leave Old Trafford and was denied permission. 

Arsenal is leading in transfer sales with 16 players leaving the club while 1 coming in. 14 players left Aston Villa and 5 joined newly. Brighton and Manchester City sold 10 each. 

Newcastle (93M), Everton (56M), Liverpool(49M) are leading in fee spent during this winter transfer window.