Is a monster chasing you? Are you appearing for examinations unprepared? Are you lost in the wilderness? See a loved one being harmed? Everybody has nightmares, and we always remember them! It is astounding how our minds can replay nightmares, causing continued discomfort and apprehension. Some nightmares are so disturbing that you might not want to close your eyes again. You might wake up with your heart beating out of your chest and find going back to sleep tough. And it is then that you may start wondering how to stop bad dreams.
Why do we get bad dreams?
Well, there remains a lingering mystery regarding dreams and nightmares. According to folklore, it is a bridge that connects your subconscious mind to the world beyond. These might also be indicative of your frame of mind.
While you cannot stop having nightmares, you can reduce their occurrence with a few steps. Here’s how you can try to stop or reduce bad dreams
1. Mental health check :
Anxiety and stress are the most significant contributors to nightmares. The more chaotic your mind, the messier your nightmare. Depression, bipolar disorder, and all related mental health issues fry your brain. Knowing your triggers will enable you to respond to anxiety and stress better.
2 Traumatic experiences :
Post Traumatic Stress Disorder induces nightmares. Unfortunately, many people have gone through traumatic experiences. Surviving violence, natural disasters, the death of a loved one, the disintegration of a relationship, and many more are defining characteristics of PTSD.
3 Check your content consumption :
What is your content consumption before bedtime? Watching horror movies or reading scary content will cause nightmares. If you feel this triggers you, filter the content you consume before bed.
4. Practice journaling : 
Your real-life concerns will emerge as nightmares. Writing them down will help you in two ways. It will allow you to view your concerns objectively in the written format. 
Read more - https://www.healthshots.com/how-to/tips-to-avoid-bad-dreams-and-nightmares/