It’s been a busy Summer for K-Dramas on Netflix, however, September is currently scheduled to be one of the quietest months on Netflix in 2022. There’s still plenty of time throughout August and September for more announcements to be made, but for now, k-drama fans will only have two new dramas to look forward to, the crime-thriller Narco-Saints and the Korean adaptation of Little Women.

1. Narco-Saints (Season 1) N
Seasons: 1 | Episodes: 6
Genre: Crime, Drama | Runtime: 60 Minutes
Cast: Ha Jung Woo, Hwang Jung Min, Park Hae Soo, Jo Woo Jin, Yoo Yeon Seok
Netflix Release Date: September 9th, 2022

Off the back of Squid Game and the Korean adaptation of Money Heist, Park Hae Soo stars in the exciting new Korean crime thriller Narco-Saints. It must be noted that the name of the drama was changed from The Accidental Narco and that the series is completely unrelated to the popular Narcos franchise.

Based on true events, Narco-Saints takes place in South America, where a drug lord operating in the country has grabbed the attention of the National Intelligence Service. The intelligence service enlists the help of an ordinary entrepreneur who set his sights on making his fortune in Suriname, only to fall knee-deep into the world of drug crime.

2. Little Women (Season 1) N
Seasons: 1 | Episodes: 12
Genre: Drama | Runtime: 60 Minutes
Cast: Kim Go Eun, Nam Ji Hyun, Park Ji Hoo, Wi Ha Joon, Uhm Ji Won
Netflix Release Date: September 3rd, 2022 | New Episodes: Saturday, Sunday

The Korean adaptation of Little Women will be set in the modern day, over 1800s Korea. There have been many adaptations of Louisa May Alcott’s beloved novel, however, this is the first time the drama has been adapted by a Korean production.

About three sisters with a close bond who grew up in poverty. It is the exciting story of the sisters as they get embroiled in a major incident and face off against the wealthiest family in the nation.

Which of the two new k-dramas will you be watching on Netflix in September 2022?