The criticism on my Leviticus post made me ponder upon it and compelled me to educate myself.

Christians are no longer bound by Jewish rules, as stated in Galatians 3:22-25. Owing faith, we live in Jesus Christ, not in Leviticus. Ethical questions affect people of all cultures and ages. Such sentiments were eventually echoed by Jesus Christ, who—even though never talked about homosexuality—spoke eloquently about love, justice and mercy.
"Unnatural" does not refer to violating laws of nature, but rather to acting against one's own nature. In light of this, I learnt that a person of today's gay sexual orientation attempting to live a heterosexual lifestyle is "unnatural," para physin.

Since any arguments mustn't be made from silence, it is much more reliable to turn to great principles of the Gospel taught by Jesus Christ and the Apostles. Love God with all your heart, and love your neighbor as yourself. Do not judge others, lest you be judged. The fruit of the Holy Spirit is love—against such there is no law.

"For it was you who formed my inward parts;
You knit me together in my mother’s womb.
I praise you, for I am fearfully and wonderfully made."
—Psalm 139:13-14

Our bodies were woven together by God. He woven our sexuality and gender together. His compassionate personal involvement in our embryonic creation is a source of thanksgiving, amazement, and wonder.
He must have envisioned people as they are: not in terms of how they express themselves – that is up to them – but in terms of who they are. If they're gay, it's because God created them that way. If they're lesbians, it's because God created them that way. If they are bisexual, it is because God created them that way. If they are transgender, it is because God created them that way.

Those, like me, who don't comprehend sexual distinctions have targeted them for blame, dread, and horror. Instead, they should be a source of pride, awe, and amazement that people different than us even exist.

It is never okay to advocate for violence.