UEFA Champions League, Quarterfinals 1: Liverpool vs SL Benfica 


Though the Eagles could be formidable opponents on their day as they showed against Ajax, We predict that Liverpool's attack would overpower the Benfica defence and hence we expect Salah and co. to qualify for the semi-finals. 




UEFA Champions League, Quarterfinals 2: Bayern Munich vs Villarreal

Spanish side Villarreal pulled off a major upset as they knocked out Juventus in the last round. The Yellow Submarines had a resounding 3-0 victory at the Allianz Arena. Hence this won't be an easy fixture for Bayern Munich by any means. 

The Bavarians themselves eased past Salzburg with an aggregate score of 8-2. With the second leg in Germany, we predict that Lewandowski would be the difference maker as the Bavarians qualify to the semi-finals once again! 

The winner of the Bayern Munich/Villarreal tie would take on the winners of the Liverpool/Benfica game in the semi-finals.




UEFA Champions League, Quarterfinals 3: Manchester City vs Atletico Madrid

Atletico Madrid are coming to this game after knocking City's "noisy neighbours" out of the competition. Manchester City meanwhile eased past Sporting Lisbon in the last round. 

This tie would certainly be hard to predict as Diego Simeone's side play one of the best defensive formations in the world. But we predict Pep Guardiola's City to win the tie over the two legs. Nevertheless, this would certainly be a close contest!




UEFA Champions League, Quarterfinals 4: Chelsea vs Real Madrid

Saving the best for last, we have Chelsea vs Real Madrid as our 4th quarter-finals tie. The two teams faced off in the semi-finals of the Champions League last season where the Blues got the better of the Los Merengues. 

Real Madrid are coming into the game on the back of Karim Benzema's masterclass against PSG. Whereas Chelsea eased 4-1 past Lille over the two legs of their Champions League tie. 

We predict Real Madrid to take their revenge on Chelsea but this would heavily depend on Benzema and Vinicius' form over the two legs. 

The winners of the Manchester City/Atletico Madrid tie and the Chelsea/Real Madrid tie will meet in the second semi-finals.