A Strategy to Deter Terrorism continues.... 

There is some corroborating evidence for the existence of such camps, for example, the US agency, the FBI has evidence which was presented to a district court in California during the trial in 2006 of suspected Pakistani-trained terrorists. Satellite photos with the FBI establish that terror training camps do exist in and around Balakot in northeast Pakistan. Indian Government also claims proof, which has not been made public, that there are 57 camps in Pakistani-held territory and 36 camps in Bangladesh.

If instead of being supportive, Pakistan and Bangladesh protest or retaliate if India bombs these camps, then it means that they are sponsors and not unwilling hosts to freelancing terrorists, and hence we should be ready for war. We could retaliate then by demanding the return of Northern Areas in Karakoram bordering PoK, presently centrally administered by Islamabad. It is good that in the present negotiations for peace in Kashmir, with Pakistan, India has now made clear that Northern Areas are a part of Kashmir, and not part of Pakistan, even if centrally administered by Islamabad.

What should be our measured retaliatory response to terrorist attacks, viz. our strategy to deter terrorists? It is argued by secular “liberals” that no retaliation against terrorists can be effective because of the high motivation of terrorists.

What motivates the Islamic terrorists in India? Many “liberals” are advising us Hindus to deal with the root “cause” of terrorism rather than concentrating on eradicating terrorists by retaliation. And pray what is the root “cause”?

According to bleeding-heart liberals, terrorists are born or bred because of four disabilities: illiteracy, poverty, oppression, and discrimination. They argue that instead of eliminating them which they consider impossible, the root cause of these four disabilities in society should be removed. Only then terrorism will disappear. Moreover they argue, terrorists cannot be deterred by force since they are irrational, willing to commit suicide, and have no “return address.” Before replying to this point of view of the liberals, let us understand that I have serious doubts about the integrity of these liberals, or more appropriately, these promiscuous intellectuals. 


To be continued....