By BestMediaInfo Bureau .

Film exhibition company PVR Cinemas recently completed 25 years of operations in India. To commemorate this milestone, it is rolling out a multimedia campaign with a film - “Iss Andhere mein bahut Roshni hai (There is light in this darkness)” featuring actor Aamir Khan.

The concept for the film was derived from a consumer insight and the poem was written by Vineet KKN Panchhi which was further evolved for the film.

The film idea comes from the insight of all the emotions and experiences the audience goes through – the magic of movies, the bonding and escaping to a fantasy world, when the lights go down. The film is a perfect play of light and darkness, taking the viewer on a journey that is brought to life inside our cinemas as that’s the only place where darkness plays that role. It reinforces the promise of - “more magic”, “more memories”, “more adventures” and “more happiness” to movie goers to remain relevant, both as a category as well as a brand.

Ajay Bijli, Chairman and Managing Director, PVR, said, “We take immense pride and feel extremely joyous on completing the 25 years milestone in India. The entertainment industry, the viewership patterns as well as the audience has evolved over the years and PVR has been able to live up to their expectations. As we continue to meaningfully engage consumers as well as introduce them to newer cinematic experiences, our focus will remain on bringing winning stories to the screen and adding joy and comfort to the life of our stakeholders.’’

PVR was founded in 1997 with the motive to completely revolutionise the cinema experience for the Indian audiences. Over the past 25 years, it has introduced the latest cinematic formats from across the world to the Indian audience.

The brand has evolved with changing times with technology such as extra-large screens, Laser Projection systems and immersive sound to bring alive every little detail of the movie. Through, PVR Privilege, the entertainment loyalty programme, it strives to deliver to its customers an experience which is specific to their consumption behaviour.

Read more
https://bestmediainfo.com/2022/08/pvr-cinemas-celebrates-its-25th-anniversary-in-india-with-a-campaign-featuring-aamir-khan