It's unusual for a groom to rave in their vows about someone other than whom they are marrying, but that's just what Marco Braun did by revealing his love for Hilary Duff and, more specifically, the character she played as a teenager, Lizzie Maguire.

At his April wedding to his partner of five years, Danny Chapman, Marco had his groom, the congregation and the celebrant in fits of laughter.

"This is what dreams are made of #pride #wedding @hilaryduff," Marco labelled his TikTok clip, which quickly went viral.

"Growing up, I always imagined getting married to early 2000s teen idol and gay icon Hilary Duff," Marco started his vows.

"So you can understand my shock today to see you," he said to his laughing groom

Marco revealed that when looking for similarities between Danny and Hilary's infamous TV character, he quickly discovered he himself was Lizzie and his hubby-to-be was Lizzie's best friend, Gordo.

"Spoiler alert: they end up together," he said.

"My whole life, I was searching for my Lizzie McGuire, when really, I should have been searching for my Gordo," Marco said in the clip.

Marco finished the clip by quoting the lyrics of Hilary's hit This Is What Dreams Are Made Of: "I've got somewhere I belong, I got somebody to love, This is what dreams are made of."

And viewers loved it!

"I didn't expect to laugh so much and cry as much at the same time; this is just beautiful," one commented.

"This is fantastic," another added.

"This is seriously so lovely and hilarious," another wrote.

With more than 4.2 million views and 1 million likes, it wasn't long before Hilary was aware of the hilarious vows.

"Ughhh swoooon. Where was my invite?" she wrote sharing the video to her Instagram Stories.

"She shared it and she also reached out personally. She's sending us a wedding gift," Marco revealed to PEOPLE magazine.

"I keep saying to myself, 'If I told my younger self this was going to happen, I would never in a million years believe me'."

Danny revealed he "wasn't that shocked" Hilary was mentioned in his husband's vows.