7 Shaun Wright-Phillips
Shaun Wright-Phillips was signed from Nottingham Forest's youth academy following his impressive development at the club, and he was named Manchester City Young Player of the Year: 1999-2000 in 2000-01, 2001-02, and 2002-03. Although he did not start regularly in his first two seasons, he grew in stature and appeared in many games for the club, changing positions and playing as an attacking midfielder and winger.
He left the club after appearing in 181 games, but returned in 2008, where he played 94 games in a starring role.
 
6 Martín Demichelis
Many fans initially thought it was a bad signing and that he would be a flop at the club after his rocky start, but Demichelis gradually tailored to playing in the Premier League and was frequently used as a holding midfielder, and Pellegrini kept faith in the player, and with this he prospered under him, and his impressive run saw him help City win the Premier League, appearing in 106 games for City.
5 Bernardo Silva
Silva, despite his height, was one of the best creative midfielders alongside De Bruyne, and the diminutive Portuguese can play in both attacking and midfield positions. Silva possesses exceptional acceleration, agility, passing, vision, and dribbling abilities. His long-lasting stamina allows him to cover a large amount of ground and tirelessly press opponents.
His best performances have paid off handsomely, as he has twice been named Manchester City player of the year and PFA player of the season. Silva has made 261 appearances for the Citizens and scored 50 goals.
4 Fernandinho
After Kompany left, he handed the captaincy to Fernandinho, who has steadily risen to become one of Manchester City's best leaders. Since joining Man City, the player has appeared in over 40-50 games, demonstrating his consistency. The Brazilian midfielder can play box-to-box, defensive midfielder, or center-back.
Fernandinho has three Premier League titles to his name and has played 380 games for the club, scoring 26 goals. Fernandinho is without a doubt one of the greatest Manchester City midfielders of all time.