Starting Monday, New Yorkers will no longer need to show proof of vaccination for indoor activities like dining and kids won’t have to wear face masks in school anymore, Mayor Adams announced as coronavirus infections continue to drop statewide.

The rollback of the pandemic precautions was expected, as Adams said earlier this week that the indoor Key2NYC vaccine mandate and school masking requirement would go away this Monday barring an “unforeseen spike” in COVID-19 cases.

Still, by making it official at a Friday morning press conference in Times Square, the mayor marked a major reversal in the city’s approach to fighting the virus, which continues to kill dozens of people in New York every day.

“This is truly an Arnold Schwarzenegger moment. We’ll be back,” Adams said, adding that he believes scrapping the restrictions is about getting “our economy back on track.”

“This is a celebratory moment. Why aren’t we celebrating this?” he added later on when asked if he’s concerned about the potential for future COVID-19 outbreaks. “We are winning, New York.”

Hizzoner’s upbeat tone was contrasted by a word of caution from Dr. David Chokshi, the city’s health commissioner.

“While this COVID-19 wave is ebbing, we can’t say that the pandemic is ending,” said Chokshi, who’s leaving his post on March 15 and handing over the reigns to incoming Health Commissioner Ashwin Vasan.

Noting that nearly 40,000 city residents have been killed by COVID-19, Chokshi unveiled a new color-coded alert system that will recommend — but not require — the reintroduction of vaccine and masking mandates if case rates surge in the future.

Though the mandates are going away, Adams said private businesses can continue to require vaccinations for customers if they want. He also said students can keep their face masks on in school if they or their parents believe it’s necessary.

Masking requirements in school settings will remain in place for children under five — primarily in pre-kindergarten programs — because vaccinations aren’t yet available to kids in that age range and because they’re more likely to be hospitalized after contracting COVID-19 than older kids.