This year's edition of the UCL will see the coronation of a new champion. After the holders, Chelsea bowed out of the tournament. Following a heart-wrenching defeat to Real Madrid. On the other hand, the small Spanish club, Villareal, is in "The Big Time." The Spanish club made headlines by knocking out the German powerhouse, Bayern Munich. Now the sky is the limit for the Yellow Submarines. 

The two favorites, Manchester City and Liverpool, were given a run for their money. By their respective opponents in Athletico and Benfica. With the semi-finals just around the corner, let's see which team has a slight upper hand among the four. 

4) Real Madrid

The Galacticos are the royalties of the Champions League. But as good as the Los Blancos have been in this season's competition. Their chances look slim against a fearsome Manchester City team. The Cityzens were the convincing winners when the two clubs last met in the UCL. Considering the resilience, they showed against Chelsea. The Los Blancos will certainly not be a pushover for the Cityzens. 

3) Villareal

The club from a small town in Castellon has players with "the heart of a lion." The Yellow submarines have not had an easy Champions League ride. Villareal has beaten the likes of Juventus and Bayern Munich along the way. And considering the form and the morale in the dressing room, only a fool would bet against Emery's regime. 

2) Liverpool. 

Klopp's boys were involved in a proper Champions League tussle with Benfica. And their previous tie against Inter was not as straightforward as the scoreline suggested. Having already won the UCL once under the German, their experience will be significant in their quest for UCL.

1) Manchester City

The Cityzens are the favorites among the four to lift the coveted trophy. In their clash against Athletico, the blues showed a lot of character and maturity in their victory. Simeone's dark tactics could not faze Guardiola and his boys, who have again been marvelous this season. Having failed at the final hurdle last year, City will be looking to go a step further this season.And bring the holy grail home.