Is it possible to listen to too much music each day? – Emma, age 16, Springville, Utah
I love listening to music.

I love music so much I decided to study it in college. I’m earning a doctorate in music history, for which I have researched everything from early 20th-century French music to 1960s funk.

I make and perform music as well. I have played drums in rock and pop bands and composed original music for jazz ensembles.

I always have my headphones on, too. I listen to music while taking a walk. I listen to lo-fi hip-hop while answering emails. I listen to Brazilian bossa nova music while I cook and clean. I listen to the jazz vocalist Abbey Lincoln while driving around town or upbeat electronic music while taking long road trips.

I miss out on a lot around me by constantly listening to music, however. I might not hear the sound of birds outside my window or my cat’s mewling when she wants to be fed or to play. I might not hear the rustling of the wind or the chatter of my family enjoying one another’s company right outside my closed door.

Apart from causing you to miss out on all the sounds that surround you, generally speaking, listening to music does not harm your body. It does not damage your liver, poison your lungs or fry your brain. It is not possible to listen to too much music.

Watch the volume

There are, however, exceptions.

For instance, you can damage your ears if you listen to music too loud for long periods. The World Health Organization estimates that around 50% of teenagers and young adults listen to music on personal audio devices at unsafe levels.

Fortunately, some smartphones have built-in features that measure how much sound is coming from your headphones. Such features measure the output of sound in a unit of measurement called decibels.

The WHO has concluded that people can withstand 85 decibels consecutively for eight hours without damaging their hearing.

Full story at The Conversation:
https://theconversation.com/is-it-possible-to-listen-to-too-much-music-each-day-173566

Imagery:
https://www.gettyimages.com/detail/news-photo/nakesha-pope-of-bowie-dances-as-she-listens-to-music-during-news-photo/589997690