1. 'Vegetarian Dishes from My Korean Home' by Shin Kim

This cookbook includes 30 simple, healthy, and flavorful Korean vegetarian recipes (25 of which can be made vegan) along with a photo of each recipe. It is a guide for exploring Korean home cooking that proudly features vegetables at the center.

2. 'Maangchi's Big Book of Korean Cooking' by Maangchi

In this book, beloved vlogger Maangchi teaches basic techniques and step-by-step recipes for everyone even those who have never made Korean food before!

3. 'Korean Home Cooking' by Sohui Kim

The book is all about "sohnmat," a Korean phrase translating roughly to "taste of the hand". With over 100 recipes, including crisp mung bean pancakes, seaweed soup, and spicy chicken stew, the readers will never run out of new lunch or dinner ideas!

4. 'Koreatown' by Deuki Hong & Matt Rodbard

Koreatowns around the United States are synonymous with mealtime feasts and late-night hangouts, and the authors show us the journey behind this through stories, interviews, and over 100 delicious, super-approachable recipes.

5. 'The Korean Vegan Cookbook' by Joanne Lee Molinaro

In this debut cookbook, she shares a collection of her favorite Korean dishes, some traditional and some reimagined, as well as poignant narrative snapshots that have shaped her family history.

6. 'Korean BBQ' by Bill Kim

Korean barbecue isn't as simple as just using the right sauces-this explainer walks you through the differences in cooking time, cooking methods, and the must-have ingredients that make Korean barbecue so special.

7. 'Growing up in a Korean Kitchen' by Hi Soo Shin Hepinstall

Memoir meets cookbook in Hepinstall's portrait of life growing up in Korea. By combining the culinary tradition passed down by her family with lush photography of the country, you get a sense of what it's like to be there.

8. 'Cook Korean!' by Robin Ha

Budding chefs of all ages will be able to follow along with the recipes featured in Robin Ha's "comic book cookbook." The ingredients and cooking steps are laid out in colorful, whimsical illustrations.