Supreme court in its historic judgment of The Puttaswamy vs Union of India case, 2017 made The Right to Privacy as an intrinsic part of Article 21. Right to Privacy includes in itself the Right to be forgotten (RTBF) and The Right to be left alone.  ( RTBF) entails the right to have publicly available information deleted from the internet. .                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 
India being a signatory to the Universal Declaration of human rights 1948, has always faced the issues of privacy but after the supreme court said the right to privacy stems from The Right to life and  
Personal liberty( Article 21 ) 
then this decision of The Supreme court had overarching implications.   Recently, a telephonic conversation between a couple was produced in court by the husband to substantiate his claim regarding their divorce but it got rejected by the honorable Supreme court, it was not entertained by stating that" it is the breach of Right to Privacy".                                                                                                                                                                
Telephonic Tapping, Publication of private pictures of celebrities are such instances where The Privacy of one citizen is abused by another individual or by some group. The Leak of the private video of Bhojpuri singer Shilpi raj is a recent incident. As technology is spreading its wings more rapidly than ever before, so the abuse of privacy is becoming more rampant now. Worldwide data of innocent unaware individuals are being stolen by big organizations, elections are being rigged by the use of this data, advertising industries are flourishing, customers are being fooled as their choices are revealed beforehand and accordingly they are being sold the products.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               
 
Face recognition technology, voice assistants provided by major tech companies are all in one or another form collecting sensitive and private data  .so, in the world of fast_ growing technology it becomes imperative for the civil societies, the Human Rights Forum, the government of the day to enjoin all the tech players to bring more transparency in their conduct, to protect the data of the individuals. In the same spirit Government of India can pass the much- awaited Data Protection Bill and more concrete steps can be taken. .