Qatar is expected to welcome a sizable contingent of guests this winter when it becomes the smallest nation ever to host one of the biggest sporting events in the world -- the FIFA World Cup.
The Gulf nation predicts that over one million fans will travel to Doha over the duration of the World Cup; that's around 37% of its population of 2.7 million. The country is only around 4,400 square miles in size, or roughly the size of Jamaica.
Previous tournament hosts have faced several logistical issues in dealing with the large number of traveling fans -- ranging from transport to accommodation. The country's small size may have some advantages, but the challenges are plenty too.
Already, there are reports of rising costs and a lack of suitable accommodation. For example, there are 21 properties available on online travel agency Booking.com for the first three nights of the tournament, with prices starting at $1,000 per night and rising to a whopping $51,000.
This isn't uncommon though. Reports from 2006 claim hotel prices spiked in Berlin and Frankfurt when Germany hosted the tournament. Prior to organizing the 2010 edition, South Africa was plagued by reports of unfinished training camps, while hotels were accused of hiking prices during the World Cup period.
"Our objective has always been providing fair and reasonable pricing for visiting fans," a spokesperson for Qatar's Supreme Committee for Delivery & Legacy (SCDL) told CNN. "We work closely with key stakeholders to ensure affordable pricing across all types of accommodation."
Host nations have often found innovative ways to house fans, and Qatar is no different.
At the 2014 World Cup in Brazil, residents living in the iconic favela slums opened their doors to tourists, renting beds, rooms and even entire houses. Some travelers got creative and opted to stay in sex motels usually reserved for Brazilians looking to hook up after a night on the town.
Here's what Qatar has thought of to house the potentially million-strong football fans:
https://edition.cnn.com/2022/09/09/sport/qatar-olympic-housing-mime-spt-intl/index.html