Hospital buildings are most complex form of building typology. This book specifically targeted for the medical administrators, architects planners and other professionals involved in planning and design of hospital buildings. The intent of the authors for this publication was to provide a one stop resource to most of critical attributes of planning and design of hospital buildings. Additionally, it provides an overview to the norms and guidelines by the accreditation agencies like National Accreditation Board for Hospitals & Healthcare Providers (NABH) and Joint Commission International (JCI). 

Architects and other construction professionals can refer this manual for effective planning and design standards of hospital buildings. This book is divided into 6 parts and has 49 chapters in total. Part 1 of the book provides inferences on hospital planning including preparation of Detailed Project Reports (DPR), feasibility studies and area programming. Part 2 focuses on schematic design of hospital buildings including post COVID considerations and space standards. Construction documents are discussed in part 3 of this book. Part 4 details out all the essential departments, critical areas and medical services such as OPD, emergency, intermediate care, diagnostics, operating rooms, intensive care units and medical gas supply. Furtherance to the design and planning attributes of hospitals, medical support services such as sterilization department, pharmacy, medical gas pipeline, kitchen, laundry, medical record, and mortuary is also covered in part 4. Engineers and sub-consultants involved in Mechanical engineering and plumbing (MEP) services can refer to part 5 of this book. The respective chapters focus on air-conditioning and ventilation, fire safety, extra low voltage etc. The last Part 6 of this book is dedicated towards medical equipment planning for healthcare facilities.  
The first author of this book is Mr. Ajay Garg from the department of Hospital Administration, Teerthanker Mahaveer University Moradabad, India. He has been working towards hospital administration for the past three decades. The second author is Prof. Dr. Anil Dewan is Professor and Head of the department of architecture, School of Planning and Architecture, Delhi He has been teaching and practicing hospital architecture past 4 decades in India and abroad. 

To access this book please click on https://link.springer.com/book/10.1007/978-981-16-8456-2