A new study published in the Journal of Mental Health explains about a clarification that's required to understand the need on what forms "a mental health problem." 

The research was based on a review of 100 publications that used references such as "mental health" or "mental illness" and learned about 34 different theoretical models to identify the nature of mental health challenges. 

Understandings related to mental health continues to evolve, as it is crucial to include a variety of diverse viewpoints to promote equitable outcomes. 

Understanding the Research

For this study, researchers reviewed 110 publications and found that there was no clear consensus on if mental health phenomena is considered a disease, the cause of it, and what constitutes "a mental health problem."

Of 34 theoretical models identified, most were based on biological or psychological approaches, but included a few social, consumer, and cultural models, and some drew elements from different mental health approaches.

Researchers found that most biomedical approaches assumed mental illness, while more social approaches questioned this, as oppression was taken into consideration in terms of its impacts on mental health.

While a variety of possibilities for addressing these tensions are outlined by researchers, they stress that these discussions need to include perspectives from individuals with lived experience coping with mental health challenges.

Cultural and Social Factors Matter

Julian Lagoy, MD, a psychiatrist with Mindpath Health, says, “There are a wide variety of ways to classify what constitutes a mental health problem. There are many variables that determine which way is used to constitute a mental health problem, including cultural and social factors." 

While biological and psychological approaches have most often been used by psychiatrists and psychologists, Dr. Lagoy notes that other approaches by helping professionals need to be recognized for equitable outcomes.

In this way, Dr. Lagoy highlights, "Having a more diverse outlook and listening to other points of view can only make one more understanding and better at treating mental health problems."

Read more - https://www.verywellmind.com/clarification-needed-on-what-constitutes-a-mental-health-problem-5219823