Zinchenko sits in the 99th percentiles for progressive passes (7.63) and carries (9.06) per 90 minutes, the 98th for pass completion (88.6%) and 94th for shot-creating actions (3.29).


At the same time, Zinchenko can play the ball with both of his feet incredibly well, which is something that manager Mikel Arteta is keen to fill his squad with. He has provided 4 assists from fullback, which fits with Arsenal’s emphasis of wing play and crossing the ball into the box. 


He also fits the age group Arteta is looking to build his squad around, with the player just 25 years old. With the right environment and more regular playing time, Zinchenko could further develop into a great player - whose best would be yet to come. 


Brings a champions mentality

Something that Arsenal have struggled over the years with is building a winning mentality. As evident this season, the minute the squad is on the edge of glory - they crumble and fail. That is how Arsenal let top 4 slip away from them last season. They need to avoid it again, by bringing in players who have won the highest honors for the biggest clubs. 


Manager Mikel Arteta has spoken about the same, stating “The best teams have a killer instinct, and a mentality that is: here is only winning. Win today, tomorrow, the next day’s training and the following one. That culture and that education has to be set. It takes a little bit of time and that’s what we need.

“The moment that is instilled, not only in the players but the staff around you – the coaches, the club, the director, the board and the crowd – then it is extremely powerful.” Hence, he clearly wants to bring the winning mentality onboard. 


Oleksandr Zinchenko would be the player Arsenal need in this scenario. Zinchenko is used to winning trophies. He could bring the much needed winner’s mentality to this young Arsenal team and be a leader on their pitch. 


Hence, Oleksandr Zinchenko would not only solve Arsenal’s defensive woes, but also give the squad a much needed quality boost.