Director-General of International Atomic Energy Agency Rafael Grossi is travelling to Tehran for talks. It is being directly linked to the negotiations in Vienna between Iran and the Western powers for reviving the 2015 nuclear agreement that Donald Trump tore up. 

According to observers, the talks may be reaching the conclusive phase, and Grossi’s visit could be because of progress. The European powers are negotiating on behalf of the U.S. with its officials keeping a close watch. Both parties have claimed that this is the most crucial phase that could make or break the deal. (https://www.timesofisrael.com/us-says-iran-nuke-deal-close-but-difficult-hurdles-remain/)

The most vital sign of the talks progressing could be at the political level with Iran’s foreign minister Hossein Amirabdollahian being involved in the talks. The Iran news agency IRNA has quoted Amirabdollahian as saying that his participation would depend on the western powers “observing all red lines” of Iran, including “economic assurances.”

According to media reports, some negotiators from Britain, France and Germany who are taking part in talks have returned to their capitals for consultations over making political decisions. This could also indicate that it has now reached the level where the political leaders may have to take the final call. (https://en.irna.ir/news/84670714/European-negotiators-back-to-capitals-for-consultations-on-Vienna)

The Financial Times quotes a state department spokesperson as saying that there had been “significant progress” in Vienna and that “if Iran shows seriousness” an understanding of mutual return to full implementation could happen “within days”. (https://www.ft.com/content/eb663500-0eb1-4094-9996-9d3d8d91535d) One of the points insisted upon by Iran is a guarantee from the U.S. that no future U.S. president will walk back from the deal as Trump did. But that is unlikely to be agreed upon by the U.S.. 

A deal at Vienna would mean that Iran can increase its oil exports, and this could ease the pressure on oil prices that have gone through the roof, reaching multi-year highs after the Russian invasion of Ukraine. That could be another incentive for the Western powers to reach a deal.

Read more:

U.S. getting closer to reviving Iran nuclear deal but officials warn efforts could still fail:
https://edition.cnn.com/2022/03/03/politics/iran-nuclear-deal-us/index.html

Iran inches closer to nuclear deal:
https://www.ft.com/content/eb663500-0eb1-4094-9996-9d3d8d91535d