Anxiety vs. panic attack

You might hear people talking about panic attacks and anxiety attacks like they’re the same thing. They’re different conditions though.

What is an anxiety attack?

The DSM-5 does not mention anxiety attacks, but it does define anxiety as a feature of a number of common psychiatric disorders.

What is a panic attack?

Panic attacks come on suddenly and involve intense and often overwhelming fear. They’re accompanied by very challenging physical symptoms, such as a racing heartbeat, shortness of breath, or nausea.

The latest edition of the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders (DSM-5) recognizes panic attacks and categorizes them as unexpected or expected.

Unexpected panic attacks occur without an obvious cause. Expected panic attacks are cued by external stressors, such as phobias.

Panic attacks can happen to anyone, but having more than one may be a sign of panic disorder.

Symptoms of anxiety include:

1 worry
2 distress
3 fear
Anxiety is usually related to the anticipation of a stressful situation, experience, or event. It may come on gradually.

The lack of diagnostic recognition of anxiety attacks means that the signs and symptoms are open to interpretation.

That is, a person may describe having an “anxiety attack” and have symptoms that another person has never experienced despite indicating that they too have had an “anxiety attack.”

Read on to find out more about the differences between panic attacks and anxiety.

Symptoms

Panic and anxiety attacks may feel similar, and they share a lot of emotional and physical symptoms.

You can experience both an anxiety and a panic attack at the same time.

For instance, you might experience anxiety while worrying about a potentially stressful situation, such as an important presentation at work. When the situation arrives, anxiety may culminate in a panic attack.

It may be difficult to know whether what you’re experiencing is anxiety or a panic attack. Keep in mind the following:

1 Anxiety is typically related to something that’s perceived as stressful or threatening. Panic attacks aren’t always cued by stressors. They most often occur out of the blue.

Sources - https://www.healthline.com/health/panic-attack-vs-anxiety-attack