By Amit Sengupta


If only a 3D hologram could resurrect the flesh and blood image of a good-looking, spectacled, revolutionary and legend, that too in the capital’s India Gate, dressed in a brand-new whimsical fancy dress called the Capital Vista by the monarch of all he surveys, then holograms could actually replace real history.

For one, neither Prime Minister Narendra Modi, nor the RSS, can appropriate the legacy of this revolutionary and legend. And second, neither can the Congress, the Communists, or the Trinamool Congress in Bengal, usurp his memory as its sole intellectual property right. This is simply because Netaji Subhash Chandra Bose is beyond the realm of private property; he is past, future and contemporary at the same time. And as an inspirational icon, he stands far removed and more tangible than a ghostly, solitary hologram in an empty landscape littered with packets of uncle chips and plastic bottles around a rotting pond.


When a rightist organisation like the BJP seeks to appropriate Netaji, it is a very crude instrumental ‘Machiavellian’ political game that they are playing. They are trying to project Subhash Chandra Bose as someone opposed to Gandhi and Jawaharlal Nehru, which is not right.

Dr Avijit Pathak
Professor, The Centre for the Study of Social Systems

Bose is loved, admired and revered in Bengal, both east and west. His pictures would adorn the walls of every Bengali Bhadralok home along with Rabindranath Tagore, Ishwar Chandra Vidyasagar and Swami Vivekananda. Modi had to pay a heavy price in the Bengal assembly elections because Donald Trump so terribly mispronounced the name of Vivekananda, and that too in Gujarat which cared so little for this Bengal legend who stunned the Americans in Chicago with his beautiful speech and surprised the devout Hindus by saying that you can discover God in a football field.

Watch - https://youtu.be/dw81mlXjg7A


The second mistake Modi made was when he allowed his followers to shout Jai Shri Ram while celebrating the legacy of Bose in Kolkata. An astute Mamata Banerjee was quick to usurp the moment; she took the microphone and declared....

https://theprobe.in/subhash-chandra-bose-why-bjp-and