When South African president Jacob Zuma was forced out of the government in February of 2019, he claimed a "conspiracy" by foreign intelligence organisations and accused them of launching a "character assassination" campaign against him. He testified the same before an inquiry commission that was looking into allegations of "state capture" during his rule. (https://www.dtnext.in/News/World/2019/07/16050528/1156608/Zuma-claims-foreign-conspiracy-in-character-assassination.vpf)

The former president has been lying low for almost three years now. But he has now come all guns blazing defending Russian President Vladimir Putin. He is on familiar territory. 

Zuma has described Putin as "a man of peace" and justified his action as a response to the threats posed by the US and Nato's eastward expansion. Zuma is clearly miffed with South Africa for abstaining in the United Nations that condemning Russia's invasion of Ukraine. 

"Surely, in terms of efforts to achieving world peace, the sovereignty of Ukraine and all the democratic dictates cannot mean allowing NATO to establish presence on its real estate, thus, establishing an untenable security risk to Russia. Ukraine and Russia are separated only by a line on the map and not by the Baltic Sea- Why is this complicated to understand?," the Jacob Zuma Foundation said in a statement on behalf of Zuma. (https://www.thesouthafrican.com/news/zuma-ukraine-put-people-first/)

While Zuma had expected his country to vote in favour of Russia, that was not to be. But 25 other African countries also didn't directly condemn Russia showing the growing clout of Putin the continent. (https://www.theglobeandmail.com/world/article-in-sign-of-russian-influence-many-african-leaders-decline-to-criticize/)

Puma's allegiance to Russia could because, of his days as a young anti-apartheid activist. During the Apartheid era, like several African National Congress (ANC) members, Zuma reportedly received training in the then Soviet Union for taking on the White supremacist government in South Africa. He had a very good relationship with Russia during his tenure as the President of South Africa.

Zuma resigned as president in February last year after huge outcries over his alleged involvement in corrupt and illegal activities. 

Read more:

West's backing Ukraine has prevented amicable resolution of Russia-Ukraine conflict, says Zuma:
https://www.iol.co.za/news/politics/wests-backing-ukraine-has-prevented-amicable-resolution-of-russia-ukraine-conflict-says-zuma-8e6bf12b-1d2f-442e-b79e-8c322d887d87