‌Since the overturning of Roe, abortion will not accessible in all states. Some States even had trigger laws already pre-planned if Roe was overturned. Let's see where do the laws stand in States right now (source: Guttmacher Institute)

‌ALABAMA- Almost a total abortion ban that predates Roe v/s Wade-this wasn't effective since 1973, now that roe is overturned the ban will go in go back to effect. The right to abortion is banned under the Alabama state constitution.❌

ALASKA- The right to abortion Is protected by state law and the constitution. GOV. Mike Dunleavy said though; that the new decision of the Supreme Court will cause a renewed conversation on the issue of abortion rights in the state.✔️

ARIZONA- There is a Pre-Roe v/s Wade law banning abortion except when a mother's life is under threat. GOV. Doug Ducey has already signed a law banning abortions after 15 weeks of pregnancy-this will come into effect.❌

Arkansas- Immediate trigger law already exists to ban abortions which will now go into effect.❌

California- Abortion rights are protected by the state.✔️

Connecticut, Colorado, and Delaware- Updated state laws have protected abortion rights.✔️

Florida- From July 1 a law will become legal banning abortions after 15 weeks of pregnancy.

Georgia- A law prohibiting abortion after 6 weeks was signed in 2019 but shelved because of legal challenges.❌

Hawai: State protects the abortion right.✔️

Idaho: Trigger law will go into effect after thirty days of overturning Roe.❌

Illinois-The abortion rights are protected by the state.✔️

Indiana-Right to abortion is neither protected nor barred in the constitution.

Iowa- Ban on abortion after 6 weeks will go into effect. Iowa court has reversed an earlier ruling that granted abortion rights.❌

Kansas- The right to abortion is protected by state laws. Voters will decide on Aig 2 whether to change the state constitution to say it is no right to abortion.✔️

Kentucky- Trigger law is in place to make abortion illegal. They also have a 15-week abortion ban on the book that was legally challenged.❌

(Continued)