By BestMediaInfo Bureau 

Even before India became an independent nation in 1947, there were brands who were responsible for not only providing a fair choice to the consumer but also rode on the bandwagon of ‘swadeshi’ consumer goods which were consumed by those living in colonial rule.

In the colonial times, there was an upheaval for boycotting foreign goods and using domestically produced goods. However, there were certain essential commodities like sugar, wool, jute, indigo which were being exported to the outside world.

During colonial rule, the entire export-import economy was under British monopoly and as a result, this trade was only limited to Britain. But with the opening of Suez Canal in 1869, India began to indulge in the trading of goods and exported raw materials and imported finished goods into the country.

At such a time when the purchasing power of Indians was very low, FMCG players began to set up their own businesses in India and started expanding their market in the country. Here are some of the earliest FMCG businesses that were set up in India:

1. Britannia

Founded in 1892, Britannia Industries is one of India’s oldest existing companies and an Indian conglomerate. Moreover, it became a public limited company in 1918 and had thus completed 100 years in 2018.

According to the annual report of FY22, Britannia has maintained its profitability and gained market share in a year that was impacted heavily by the pandemic, inflation and geo-political tensions.

It was able to accommodate the inflationary pressure by increasing the product prices and through value creation for consumers. At the end of FY22, Britannia had a Net profit of Rs. 1,603 crores at a 14% CAGR.

One of the most iconic campaigns released by the company was the     #100SaalSe100SaalTak – The 100 years journey of Britannia campaign which showcases its long journey and changing role in the lives of its consumers.

https://youtu.be/5THaPI20sIE

Continued here:- https://bestmediainfo.com/2022/08/eight-legacy-brands-that-have-been-changing-the-fmcg-game-preindependence