ake foods are invading our supermarkets, as foods we love are substituted or adulterated with lower value or unethical goods.
Food fraud threatens human health but is also bad news for industry and sustainable food production. Seafood is one of most traded food products in the world and reliant on convoluted supply chains that leave the the door wide open for seafood fraud.
Our new study, published in the journal Fish and Fisheries, showcases a new approach for determining the provenance or “origin” of many seafood species.
By identifying provenance, we can detect fraud and empower authorities and businesses to stop it. This makes it more likely that the food you buy is, in fact, the food you truly want to eat.
Wild-caught seafood is vulnerable to illegal, unreported, and unregulated fishing.
Illegal, unreported, and unregulated fishing can have a devastating impact on the marine environment because:
it is a major cause of overfishing, constituting an estimated one-fifth of seafood
it can destroy marine habitats, such coral reefs, through destructive fishing methods such as blast bombing and cyanide fishing
it can significantly harm wildlife, such as albatross and turtles, which are caught as by-catch.
So how is illegal, unreported, and unregulated fishing connected to seafood fraud?
Seafood fraud allows this kind of fishing to flourish as illegal products are laundered through legitimate supply chains.
A recent study in the United States found when seafood is mislabelled, it is more likely to be substituted for a product from less healthy fisheries with management policies that are less likely to reduce the environmental impacts of fishing.
One review of mislabelled seafood in the US found that out of 180 substituted species, 25 were considered threatened, endangered, or critically endangered by the International Union for Conservation of Nature and Natural Resources (IUCN).
Illegal fishing and seafood fraud also has a human cost. It can:
adversely affect the livelihoods of law-abiding fishers and seafood businesses
threaten food security
facilitate human rights abuses such as forced labour and piracy
increase risk of exposure to pathogens, drugs, and other banned substances in seafood.
Read more: 
https://theconversation.com/where-is-your-seafood-really-from-were-using-chemical-fingerprinting-to-fight-seafood-fraud-and-illegal-fishing-189471