[Firstly yes that is me in the picture]
Kathakali brought humanity into Hinduism to express emotions that go beyond words. The temple rituals, first performed in secret, evolved into a vibrant drama that embraces the essence of what it is to be human. Many people misunderstand but Kathakali initially was a theatrical form only and they are a number of different versions. Traditionally the name of this dance form was deduced by joining two words, ‘Katha’ and ‘Kali’ where ‘Katha’ in Sanskrit means a traditional tale or story and ‘Kali’ derived from ‘Kala’ refers to art and performance.
Kathakali is a highly charged powerful drama that combines devotion, drama, dance, music, costumes, and make-up to produce one of the most impressive forms of sacred theatre in the world. Kathakali evolved from earlier temple art forms in the 17th century, is based on Hinduism, and is a highly charged powerful drama that combines devotion, drama, dance, music, costumes, and make-up to produce one of the most impressive forms of sacred theatre in the world. Author Phillip Zarrilli mentions that the basic components and distinct features of this form of classical dance can be traced back to ancient Sanskrit Hindu text called ‘Natya Shastra’, a text on the performing arts written by the sage Bharata Muni, an Indian theatrologist and musicologist
Kathakali is a traditional and classical dance that has been practised for generations. It is more than a dance-drama; it is a devotional performance that depicts the universal conflict between good and evil. 
‘Kathakali’ encompass seven fundamental make-up codes which are ‘Pacca’ (green), ‘Minukku’, ‘Teppu’, ‘Kari’ (black), ‘Tati’, ‘Payuppu’ (ripe) and ‘Katti’ (knife). A character with ‘Pacca’ make-up and brightly coral red coloured lips depicts gods, sages and noble characters like Shiva, Krishna, Rama and Arjuna. A ‘Minukku’ make-up using orange, saffron or yellow colour depicts virtuous and good female characters like Sita and Panchali.
In India, Hindu epic stories were frequently told in a language that the locals could understand: theatre. As they were performed in the heart of their rural villages, the stories were passed down from generation to generation.