Not long ago, there was a controversy over Montblanc’s limited-edition Gandhi pen for linking luxury pens with the name of a man who stood for the poor and fought against poverty. A court case was filed regarding this issue in the Kerala High Court.
There were two limited-edition pens actually – silver and gold – a Limited Edition 3000, with three thousand fountain pens, and a Limited Edition 241 (named after the 241 miles of Gandhi’s Salt March) with 241 fountain pens. Both sets had an image of Mahatma Gandhi on the nib. Apart from the violation of the Emblems and Names (Prevention of Improper Use) Act of 1950, which restricts use of the name or pictorial representation of Mahatma Gandhi, it was a bad idea to link Gandhiji’s name with pens that cost several lakhs of rupees.
There has been no controversy when the Aditya Birla group started to sell Eternal Gandhi products, including fountain pens. The reason is obvious – Eternal Gandhi fountain pens aren’t frightfully expensive.
It isn’t just a question of price. There is an element of incongruity in linking Gandhiji’s name with fountain pens, regardless of price. Mahatma Gandhi didn’t like fountain pens – he preferred reed pens, which were in use before the advent of fountain pens. By reed pen, he meant what is usually known as a dip pen, not a classic reed pen made from reeds.
This comes across clearly in certain of his letters. On 20 March 1932, he wrote to Parasram Mehrotra, "There is not the slightest need for the girls to use a fountain pen. Really speaking, nobody in the Ashram should need a fountain pen. Why should anybody be in such hurry? For students at any rate, it is certainly a harmful thing to use." On 13 May 1932, he wrote to Mirabehn, "It is well if you do without the fountain pen."
In 1947, while advising students, he talked about fountain pens priced at 50 rupees. In today's indices, he was probably talking about fountain pens priced roughly at 15,000 rupees. These were imported pens and were pretty expensive.