1. EXO (1 billion USD)
Nicknamed the “Nation’s Pick”, EXO once ruled over Kpop with their excellent vocals, impressive choreography, and gorgeous visuals.
As it turns out, EXO is the richest Kpop group as of 2022, with their total net worth ranking up to 1 billion USD

While such a number is not verificable, media sites like KpopStars, Kami, and Channel Korean claim that EXO’s worth a billion dollars. On the other hand, there is also information that each EXO member boasts an individual net worth of around 7-10 million USD.

2. BTS (120-150 million USD)
According to Sportskeeda, BTS have a net worth of 120-150 million USD from album sales, tours, brand endorsements, and music royalties.
The same news site also reported that BTS brings in a whopping 3.9 billion USD to the economy of Korea – more than many multinational companies’ total earnings. 

According to Celebrity Net Worth, within 2019 alone, BTS earned US$170 million from their “Love Yourself World Tour” – more than any American band in the same year, except for Metallica. 
The idol group also collaborates with brands like Baskin-Robbins, LeSportsac, Skechers, Mattel, Casetify, Tamagotchi, VT Cosmetics, and Jamie Wander.

In 2022, after releasing new album “Proof”, the group also launched a new game, BTS Island, which is themed around the group’s quest for fun and relaxation as they arrive on a mysterious empty island.
 

3. BLACKPINK (62 million USD)
BLACKPINK is considered a pillar of YG Entertainment, with net worth amounting up to 62 million USD and generating huge profits for their company. 
In 2020, the girl group made history on Spotify as “How You Like That” debuted at the 5th position in the platform’s Top 50 Global Daily, setting a record for girl groups both in and outside of Kpop. The track then continued to rise in music platforms and earned the 2nd position, becoming the highest-ranking Kpop song in Spotify history. 
BLACKPINK also establishes strong influences in the fashion realm, with each member representing luxury designer houses like Dior, Calvin Klein, Chanel, YSL, Celine, Bvlgari, Tiffany & Co, etc.