A new study that was published in the journal Ophthalmology finds out a relevant study. People those who wear reusable contact lenses have much more risks of getting a rare but serious eye infection that those who use daily disposal contacts. 
Contact wearers needs to have a better hygiene as advised by the experts. 
The researchers could confirm the study from the reports of University College London and Moorfields Eye Hospital, that the reusable contact lens wearers could be four times at risk of contracting Acanthamoeba Keratitis (AK) than those users of disposable contacts. 
“Contact lenses cause microabrasions and disruption of the epithelium of the cornea, the front layer of the front of the eye,” Dr. Yuna Rapoport, an ophthalmologist with Manhattan Eye in New York, told Healthline. “This makes the cornea more susceptible to any pathogens that are opportunistic… Basically, contact lenses change and decrease the integrity of the corneal epithelium and Acantheomeba adheres to an irregular cornea easier as well as a contact lens surface, thus increasing the risk of keratitis in contact lens wearers.” 
The findings from the study was compared between 83 Moorfields Eye Hospital patients along with AK and a control group of 122 people with other eye conditions.  
The risk of developing AK was 3.8 times much more among those who used to wear reusable contacts, as per the researchers findings. They could also find that almost 3p to 62 percent of AK could be prevented by switching from reusable to daily disposable lenses. 
“If economically feasible switching to daily disposables eliminates some of these risk factors,” Dr. Alexander Solomon, a surgical neuro-ophthalmologist and strabismus surgeon at the Pacific Neuroscience Institute at Providence Saint John’s Health Center in California, told Healthline. 
To minimize the risk of infection from the contacts, Dr. Alexander advised people to wear glasses. 
“I found that when I stopped using my contact lenses regularly, switching to the daily disposables became more affordable and was by far the safer option,” he said. 
Sources - Healthline 