By NewsDrum Desk
New Delhi: Terming pendency of cases a "huge challenge", Chief Justice of India N V Ramana on Friday expressed regret for not being able to pay much attention to issues of listing and posting of matters for hearing in the Supreme Court.
The CJI, who is to demit office on Friday, said there is a need to deploy modern technology tools and artificial intelligence to find a solution.
"Even though we tried developing some modules, because of the compatibility and security issues, we could not make much progress," Justice Ramana, who was heading the ceremonial bench, said.
He said during the COVID-19 pandemic, the priority was running of the courts and unlike commercial establishments, "we cannot secure the technological tools from the market directly".
"We have to admit the fact that the pendency is a huge challenge before us. I must admit that issues of listing and posting of matters is one of the areas on which I could not pay much attention. I am sorry for that," the CJI said, adding, "We are busy in fire-fighting on all days".
Recently, senior advocate and former president of the Supreme Court Bar Association (SCBA) Dushyant Dave had said that the CJI should not have the power to assign and list cases, and a fully automated system for allocation be put in place in the top court.
He had referred to the problems faced by young lawyers in getting their matters listed in the apex court.
In his first farewell speech for the day, Justice Ramana said the needs of the judiciary were different from those of the rest.
He said unless the bar was willing to extend its whole-hearted cooperation, it would be difficult to bring in necessary changes.
"The juniors who entered the profession look up to the seniors as their role models. I request all the seniors to guide them to be on the right path," he said.
The CJI said Indian judiciary has grown with time and it cannot be defined or judged by one single order or judgement.
Read more
https://www.newsdrum.in/national/pendency-of-cases-huge-challenge-says-cji-n-v-ramana-81007.html