When Steve McClaren became Manchester United’s assistant manager in February 1999, the chairman Martin Edwards introduced him to journalists as “Steve McClaridge”.

Further indignity was to follow when, before one of his first training sessions, McClaren was mocked by Teddy Sheringham for not putting out the cones in a straight line. Arriving mid-season from Derby County, following Brian Kidd’s abrupt departure to Blackburn Rovers, he was met with scepticism.

For everything, it was, ‘Why are we doing this, Steve?’,” McClaren recalled in a recent interview with FourFourTwo. “I had to have all the answers.”

McClaren’s answers were not typical of the time. He was a 37-year-old coach who was known for his pioneering use of performance analysis tools, a sports psychologist and an innovative “preparation chamber”, complete with vibrating chairs, to aid recovery between matches and training sessions.

United had a winning formula that put them on course for a fifth Premier League title in seven seasons, beating Nottingham Forest 8-1 in their previous outing. Why on earth did they need this guy from Derby, trying to take them into unfamiliar territory?

By the end of that season, United had scaled heights beyond their wildest dreams, winning the Premier League after an epic tussle with Arsenal, the FA Cup and, in unforgettable circumstances, the Champions League. There is no need to overstate McClaren’s role in a series of triumphs that had been years in the making for Sir Alex Ferguson and his players, but it is safe to say the assistant manager’s contribution was appreciated and the initial scepticism quickly overcome.

Spool forward 23 years and McClaren is heading back to United as part of a new-look coaching team under Erik ten Hag. This time, the questions were not about his reputation as an innovator, but whether it was really necessary to hire a 61-year-old whose past three managerial posts (at Newcastle United, Derby and Queens Park Rangers) ended, like his infamous engagement with the England national team, with the sack.

The United hierarchy were initially unsure about Ten Hag’s proposal.

https://theathletic.com/3316349/2022/05/18/ten-hag-steve-mcclaren-manchester-united/?amp=1