Most of the big names in world football have booked their ticket to the Qatar edition of FIFA World cup by now, there are 5 spots vacant now. Italy, Egypt, Columbia, Sweden fell in the way while Portugal, Poland made it to the biggest sporting event on the final day. Lets see who has the chances and how they can qualify. 


CONCACAF

(Confederation of North, Central American and Caribbean Association Football)


Canada is the only team qualified so far. 2nd and 3rd teams from round 3 will get qualified on 30th March. Currently, the USA is 2nd and Mexico is 3rd (25 points each). Costa Rica is 4th with 22 points. 


On the 30th, the USA plays against Costa Rica, and Mexico faces El Salvador, who are already eliminated. the 4th placed team will play against the OFC(Oceania Football Confederation) qualifier winner on 13 or 14 June. 



OFC 


On 30th March, Solomon Islands will play against New Zealand at Doha, Qatar to get inter Confederation play off chance, where they will play against CONCACAF 4th placed team. 


Asian Football Confederation (AFC)


From Asia, Qatar will play as hosts in the world cup. Iran, Japan, South Korea, Saudi Arabia qualified through qualification rounds. UAE, who stunned all with a win over South Korea on 29th March will play against Australia in the fourth round to get a chance to play in the Inter Confederation play off. The match will be on June 7th at Doha, Qatar. Peru is waiting as the 5th placed team from CONMEBOL (South American Football Confederation) to face the winner on 13th or 14th June at Doha, Qatar. 


UEFA (Union of European Football Associations)


12 teams have qualified from Europe to the World cup. Only 1 spot left from Europe left to fill. 


After a thrilling win over Austria (2-1), Wales will now play against the winner of Path A semi final, in which Scotland plays against Ukraine. Match is scheduled to be conducted in June. Poland beat Sweden in the Path B final, and Portugal overcame the North Macedonia challenge in the Path C finals. 