Arsenal 2-1 Fulham - The Standouts:

The Gunners triumphed late on through a Gabriel winner in a roughly fought London Derby, but there were quite a few standout performers to note, for both teams:

Ødegaard - What better place to start than the well deserved MOTM. What confidence does is incredible, as the Norwegian put in a real captains performance to fire the Gunners over the line.

From having 91 touches, to consoling Gabriel after his mistake, to troubling Leno… the midfielder took the game by the scruff of the neck, creating 2 chances, retaining the ball impressively with sharp touches & wonderful diagonal recycling balls for sustaining. A sensational performance.

Ben White - A colossal performance from the versatile defender. Continuing at RB, Ben was very secure in possession as usual, was incredibly impressive aerially against Mitrovic & very strong 1v1. Moreover, the Englishman overlapped & made himself available offensively, providing options for Saka & allowing for fluid attacking football down the right hand side.

Saliba - What more can be said about the 21 year old Frenchman. Calmness personified, incredible reading of situations, press resistant, integral to ball progression with finding Ødegaard free. One moment which really caught the eye, was when he chopped from Mitrovic’s pressure, then played an effortless diagonal to Saka, showing his incredible ball playing abilities. Colossal. 

Mitrovic - Despite being kept quiet in the 1st half, after some stick from the home crowd, Mitrovic was winning duels, jumping into battles & retaining the ball, pressed effectively which led to the goal, alongside the finish, and was an all round handful. The Serb is a massive presence, and plays like it too. Made life really difficult for the Gunners. 

Palhinha - It could’ve been any of Fulham’s incredibly well organised block, but Paulinha really caught the eye. The Portuguese was integral to very little central progression for Arsenal as they planned, finding a way to intercept the final third action on most occasions, alongside Reed. 

A really nice pickup in a 6 market which is very saturated.