Surashree Kesarbai Kerkar (13 July 1892 - 16 September 1977) was an Indian Classical Vocalist of the Jaipur-Atrauli gharana. A protege of Ustad Alladiya Khan, the founder of the Gharana, from age 16, she went on to become one of most noted Khayal singer of 2nd half of 20th-century.

Born in the tiny village of Goa, at the age of 8 Kerkar moved to Kolhapur, where she studied for 8 months with Ustad Abdul Karim Khan. Upon her return to Goa, she studied with the vocalist Pt. Ramkrishnabuwa Vaze.
At the age of 16, she moved to Mumbai with her mother and uncle. With the help of wealthy Seth Vitthaldas Dwarkadas she studied under Barkat Ullah Khan, Sitar player and court musician at Patiala State. However he taught her intermittently for 2 years, during his visit to the city. However when He became court musician at Mysore State, she trained under Pt. Bhaskarbuwa Bakhale and Pt. Ramkrishnabuwa Vaze for short periods. Eventually ending up as disciple to Ustad Alladiya Khan beginning in 1921. She trained rigorously under him for following 11 years. Though she started singing professionally in 1930, she continued learning from Ustad Alladiya Khan, despite his failing health, till his death in 1946.
Kesarbai Kerkar eventually achieved wide renown, performing regularly for aristocratic audiences. She was very particular about the representation of her work and consequently made only a few 78 rpm recordings, for the HMV and Broadcast labels. In time, Kerkar became an accomplished Khayal singer of her generation, and seldom sang light classical music, often associated with female vocalists. 
In 1941, Rabindranath Tagore conferred the title of Surashree on Kesarbai Kerkar.
Kesarbai Kerkar has the further distinction of having one of her recordings, "Jaat Kahan Ho" (an interpretation of raga Bhairavi), included on the Voyager Golden Record, a gold plated copper disc containing music selections from around the world, which was sent into space aboard the Voyager 1 and 2 spacecraft in 1977. The recording was recommended for inclusion on the Voyager disc by the ethnomusicologist Robert E. Brown, who believed it to be the finest recorded example of Indian classical music.