Second-place Argentina defeated last-placed Venezuela 3-0 in the penultimate round of South American World Cup qualification on Friday.
Lionel Messi, who was recently booed by PSG fans, was pleased after scoring the game's third goal and received loud applause from the crowd at Buenos Aires' La Bombonera Stadium.

Brazil, Argentina, Ecuador, and Uruguay have already clinched the four direct slots for the region in Qatar later this year. On Tuesday, Peru (21 points), Colombia (20 points), and Chile (19 points) will compete for fifth place, which will qualify them for an international playoff with an Asian team.

Argentina took the lead in the 35th minute when Nico González scored from close range after Rodrigo de Paul's low cross. After an assist from De Paul, ngel di Maria, another player under criticism in France, scored the second goal in the 79th minute, lobbing the Venezuelan goalie.

After Barcelona's Champions League round-of-16 loss to Real Madrid, both Messi and Brazil's Neymar have experienced criticism in France.

Argentina is four points behind Brazil in the qualifications with 38 points. On Tuesday, Argentina will go to Ecuador, which is currently in third position. FIFA wants Argentina and Brazil to resume their Sept. 6 match, which was called off due to Brazilian health protocols in the first few minutes.

Argentina has won two World Cups in 1978 and 1986, making it one of the most successful national football teams in the world. Three times, Argentina has finished second: in 1930, 1990, and 2014. In terms of appearances, the team was present in all but four World Cups, trailing just Brazil, Italy, and Germany.

Argentina has also won the Copa América 15 times, tying Uruguay for the most. Argentina has also won the Confederations Cup and the gold medal at the Olympic football games in 2004 and 2008. Argentina has won two silver medals in the previous two tournaments, in 1928 and 1996.

 Argentina has won the U-20 World Cup six times at other levels of international play. Argentina has yet to win a FIFA international competition, the U-17 World Cup.