Liger star Vijay Devakoranda faced boycott calls for speaking up against targeting Hindi films
“It all started when a strange virus forced people to stay locked in and stop worshipping gods with feet of clay.” This could make for a suitable epitaph about the bustling Hindi film industry in a few years’ time. This is a phase in India’s lived history when Hindi film folk are facing rejection from audiences, losing the battle of public perception; and a raucous war on Twitter. Yet, as it’s secure structures crumble all around it with bangs and bluster, the industry still doesn’t have a coherent, unified response to public criticism. Not only have those people that hold control and make films for a living come together, they are also surprisingly unbothered over what the future might hold.
The latest ‘big budget’ failure is Liger, from the stable of Dharma Productions. In the Hindi film territories, the film hasn’t done well and has earned negative reviews. Unfortunately, for him, Liger star Vijay Devakoranda faced boycott calls for speaking up against targeting Hindi films and their stars online.
The sheer lack of response of the Hindi film industry, even as it faces its worst crisis, is baffling. Arjun Kapoor got hauled over coals on social media for speaking up for his fraternity, about how it’s dignified silence is being misused by vested interests. Every other star is content sharing un-real life moments on social media and collecting brand endorsements.  Arjun’s response also got called out because not all silence from his fraternity is ‘dignified’, a lot of it is just indifferent.
This head in the clouds, lack of a reality check aspect of Hindi cinema is not new. A chunk of people that work in Hindi cinema live in posh upmarket high rises, eat at expensive fad driven restaurants, often take the first flight out to an exotic foreign land for a break. Sure, acting and professions in cinema or TV are relentless demanding professions, where exhaustion sets in. Actors also need to inhabit mind spaces and character traits when working on a film or project which can drain a person. It's not a surprise to seek respite. 