Enraged by the visit of Nancy Pelosi, Speaker of the US Congress and one of the most powerful leaders there, China's threat of targeted missile strikes on Taiwan's air and sea borders till Sunday is extremely worrying and after the Ukraine crisis is another great threat to world peace.
It wouldn't be a surprise if this Chinese aggression turns into a major global crisis because Beijing's move is more about stopping the movement of ports in addition to stopping supplies in Taiwan. China has also said that there should be no movement of foreign ships and aircraft in this area till Sunday. In fact, when Russia attacked Ukraine earlier this year, it became clear that this would encourage countries like China to show aggression. It is not accidental that Russia has backed China on this, which was furious over Nancy Pelosi's visit to Taiwan.
The aggression of Chinese President Xi Jinping, though, is understandable. He is about to start a record third term as president a few months from now and in such a situation wants to record his name in history by embodying the plan to include Taiwan in China. But the major problem here for China is that the world's view of Wsthe 'One China Policy' that it is repeatedly reminding about to maintain its supremacy over Taiwan, Hong Kong and Tibet has started changing rapidly. That being said, China, showing its expansionist attitude around the world, cannot justify its dominance in Taiwan or Hong Kong in the name of the 'One China Policy.
There also exists an undeniable reality that Taiwan, an independent island that China claims as its own, chooses its government, has its army, generates its revenue and has its passport. 
Nancy Pelosi was given a warm welcome in Taiwan and was bestowed with Taiwan's highest civilian honour and President Tsai tweeted that "Democratic countries stand together in times of shared challenges". Taiwan, although is not intimidated by threats from China, but condemning the Chinese aggression is not enough.  Democratic powers around the world, including the US, will also have to do everything possible to ensure that Taiwan does not become another Ukraine.