1. “Peace begins with a smile.” — Mother Teresa
2. “Nothing can bring you peace but yourself. Nothing can bring you peace but the triumph of principles.” — Ralph Waldo Emerson
3. “Do not let the behavior of others destroy your inner peace.” — Dalai Lama
4. “An eye for an eye will only make the whole world blind.” ― Mahatma Gandhi
5. “You may say I'm a dreamer, but I'm not the only one. I hope someday you'll join us. And the world will live as one.” ― John Lennon, Imagine
6. “You cannot find peace by avoiding life.” ― Michael Cunningham, The Hours
7. “Peace cannot be kept by force; it can only be achieved by understanding.” ― Albert Einstein
8. “When you do the right thing, you get the feeling of peace and serenity associated with it. Do it again and again.” ― Roy T. Bennett
9. “Peace comes from within.  Do not seek it without.” ― Siddhārtha Gautama
10. “You have peace when you make it with yourself.” ― Mitch Albom, The Five People You Meet in Heaven
11. “If you are depressed, you are living in the past. If you are anxious, you are living in the future. If you are at peace, you are living in the present.” — Lao Tzu
12. “Peace is a daily, a weekly, a monthly process, gradually changing opinions, slowly eroding old barriers, quietly building new structures.” — President John F. Kennedy
13. “Peace is always beautiful.” ― Walt Whitman, Leaves of Grass
14. “It is not enough to win a war; it is more important to organize the peace.” ― Aristotle
15. "When you make peace with yourself, you make peace with the world.”— Maha Ghosananda
16. “The practice of forgiveness is our most important contribution to the healing of the world.” ― Marianne Williamson
17. “There are two ways of spreading light: to be the candle or the mirror that reflects it.” — Edith Wharton
18. “Learning to distance yourself from all the negativity is one of the greatest lessons to achieve inner peace.” ― Roy T. Bennett, The Light in the Heart
19. “Love is the purest form of a soul at peace.” ― Matthew Donnelly