Saka and Martinelli are match-winners_Last season, Saka was the main source of output, working closely with Ødegaard, but teams would figure this pattern out. Martinelli dazzled, but could not produce the end product. A year on, both Bukayo Saka and Gabriel Martinelli are having an impact that are making the difference in the opposition penalty box. Martinelli looks to have gone up another level, giving us the moments Alexis Sanchez would produce on the left-hand side.Ødegaard’s off-the-ball presence_We saw a different tactical approach from Martin Ødegaard, and I’m only speaking on-the-ball contributions. His lovely pass scythed through the Liverpool back-line in the first minute for Martinelli, but the biggest contribution in this particular match will have been his off-the-ball work. Against Liverpool, he was the main trigger point for our press, hunting down anything in a straight line.Should we be concerned with Gabriel?_Saliba has taken the headlines for his defensive security at the back, but there is a pattern emerging in Gabriel Magalhães’ concentration and judgement. For Liverpool’s equaliser, Gabriel is seen to be a yard away from the correct position to handle an airborne ball. Instead, he toe pokes the ball in the direction of Díaz who broke away to find Darwin Nunez in the box. This will be a player to watch over the next few months, and whether he can shake these moments out of his system.Tomiyasu could be our big game player_What a master-stroke from Mikel Arteta. Not many would have predicted Tomiyasu to start, only Arteta himself saw this one coming. Tomiyasu finished the match with the most duels won, most balls in the air won, and most tackles made. He covered Salah’s angles superbly, with Trent-Alexander Arnold playing deeper to manage Martinelli.A big test passed_The media, content creators and pundits have continuously discussed the tests and challenges Arsenal face in order to be taken seriously. It seems the goalposts move with each game week, but for us: this is huge. The main reason for optimism is the mental barrier we’ve broken against Liverpool, despite their form.