Few games have ever been released which manage to feel epic and badass nearly 20 years after they were released, but when they manage to be, it just indicates that those games were ahead of their time. Star Wars: Republic Commando is one such game.
 Playing the game today it still feels like one of the best first person shooter experiences as well as one of the if not the best Star Wars game of all time. So many years after it was released, you end up thinking who the hell needs a lightsaber when you have a good old fashioned blaster?
 Released in 2005, the game follows the Delta Squad, an elite squad of Republic clone commandos trained by Mandalorians fighting the Separatists and engaging in highly dangerous and specialized tactical operations beyond the scope of the standard clone trooper.
 Playing as Delta 38 also known as ‘Boss’, your squadmates include ‘07’ also known as ‘Sev’ the hunter among the group, ‘62’ known as ‘Scorch’ the demolitions expert and ‘40’ known as ‘Fixer’ technical expert.  
Each commando has their own unique personality with different dialogues rather than being the same generic trooper with different names, with a different colour scheme making each squad member feel different, alive and interactive. 
The gameplay is centered around 10-15 hour tightly scripted battles where you fight droids, Geonosian bugs and Trandoshan mercenaries with the whole thing manoeuvring around a methodical highly story driven narrative, and as the leader of Delta Squad you can order your squadmates to perform various functions. 
These include hacking console terminals, sniping, taking cover, provide you support fire, use explosive anti armour weapons, spread mines, operate turrets, cannons and vehicle based heavy weapons, booby trap doors with explosives, mine explosive tanks, hold and defend position, heal, revive you or your fellow squadmates and follow and defend squad leader.
The gameplay and graphics have definitely aged though it is still bloody brilliant while the concept in itself is so unique and its gameplay mechanics and ability to create an immersive experience are so outstanding that few modern FPS games can rival it, certainly not Call Of Duty or Battlefield.