It's essential to keep hydrated throughout the day, especially if you are working out and sweating off a lot of the water 

Your ability to function in an exercise can quickly degrade if you don't drink enough water. 

 if you begin to feel thirsty in the middle the workout, you may already be dehydrated,

Make sure you are sipping enough water throughout the day because how you feel at the halfway point can be seriously affected by the quantity of water you take before and after class. 

But what is that ideal number exactly? Drinking too much water might cause you to get dehydrated, which can be dangerous to your health and make it harder to complete a workout. 

So, should you enjoy drinking all through your exercise or should you save it for the last sip of the session?

Water should be consumed during your workout. When you exercise, you burn energy, your heart rate rises, and you start to Sweat.

 Keeping hydrated while exercising will help you avoid being dehydrated. Every 20 minutes during your workout, Consuming 7 to 10 ounces of water is advised. 

Regular drinking water might not be sufficient for the strenuous activity you are putting your body through if you are exercising for more than two hours or in a hot, humid climate.

This kind of intense exercise decrease the glycogen that your muscles need to function. While you can't stop to eat or drink, like when you're running a marathon, 

How much water should you consume while working out at the gym?

Preventing dehydration and drinking no more water than you are sweating out are the major objectives of drinking water when exercising. 

To avoid Dehydration, it is adviced to have 17 to 20 ounces of water two to three hours before a workout. Then about 20-30 minutes drink another 8 ounces. Within 30 minutes of completing the workout routine, drink another 8 drink another 8 ounces. Within 30 minutes of completing the workout routine, drink another 8 ounces and continue to gulp down 16 to 24 ounces for each pound.

Thank you ⚽