To commemorate the 100th year of arrival of Nobel Laureate Gurudev Rabindranath Tagore to Sri Lanka, the University of Colombo in collaboration with the High Commission of India, Colombo, organized a special ceremony to unveil the bust of Gurudev Rabindranath Tagore at the Sri Palee Campus of the University on 03rd February 2022. The Chief Guest, Hon. Prof. G. L. Peiris, Minister of Foreign Affairs of Sri Lanka, along with the Guests of Honour Shri Gopal Baglay, High Commissioner of India to Sri Lanka and Hon. Vidura Wickremanayaka, State Minister of National Heritage, Performing Arts, and Rural Promotions, unveiled and garlanded the bust of Gurudev Rabindranath Tagore in the presence of Prof. Chandrika N. Wijeyaratne, Vice-Chancellor, University of Colombo, and distinguished officers, staff and students of the university. This bronze bust of Tagore has been gifted by Indian Council for Cultural Relations (ICCR), Ministry of External Affairs, Government of India.

2. During the unveiling ceremony, Hon. Prof. G. L. Peiris highlighted that Sri Lanka had a special place in the heart of Gurudev Rabindranath Tagore, who visited Sri Lanka three times in 1922, 1928, and 1934. The third visit of Gurudev Rabindranath Tagore is remembered for the foundation of “Sri Palee.” He recalled that the invitation for this visit was extended to Tagore by his granduncle, Mr. Wlimot A. Perera, who was a leading entrepreneur and social reformer. Mr. Wlimot A. Perera had earlier visited Visva Bharati at Santiniketan in West Bengal, India and was so impressed by the works and thoughts of Gurudev as well as the values of the institution that he resolved to establish a similar institution in Sri Lanka. On his invitation, the Gurudev visited Sri Lanka and laid the foundation of the new institution on 20th May, 1934. He proposed that the new institution should be named as “Sri Palee.”

3. The High Commissioner of India, Gopal Baglay recalled Tagore’s love for Sri Lanka, which inspired him in many ways. 

(Pathum WIckramarathne.)