Humans developed the fight-or-flight reaction to assess threats based on available data. For centuries, it has aided our species' survival. However, in the digital age, the amount of information available to us has increased dramatically. Our minds and bodies are harmed as we consume news at an increasing rate.

What options do we have? Most of us walk a fine line between wanting to keep informed and involved while also being aware of how the constant barrage of bad news impacts our mental health. Is it selfish to cut ourselves off from the rest of the world? Is it true that ignorance is bliss? Balance, according to experts, is the key.

The Availability of Information
Even if you don't watch local television news or pick up a newspaper, it's highly possible that you'll come across something news-related thanks to social media. It's nearly impossible to avoid.
Every day, we are bombarded with information about natural disasters, needless violence, family tragedies, political squabbles, celebrity drama, and a plethora of other "newsworthy" occurrences. They can provoke that stress reaction regardless of whether they're local or even related to our own life. It's also easier than ever to become engrossed in a story or fall down a rabbit hole of data.



Time Limits and Their Importance
It's reasonable to be concerned about what's going on in the globe, according to clinical psychologist Roberta Ballard, PhD. But it's all about striking the right balance. Ballard advises against trying to make oneself not care if you are someone who cares. Rather, look for a happy medium.


"Part of what makes us decent beings is caring," Ballard says. "It's fine, though, if you don't know every detail about conditions that are absolutely out of your control... Asking the question, "What can I control here?" is a method I've used with many of my clients. It tends to aid someone if they can find a means to help or contribute to a solution while simultaneously limiting or taking a break from news.”
More on support story