How to Eat Healthy with a Hectic Schedule . 
"Where there is a will, there is a way. Following a balanced diet is probably the easiest," says Dr. (Mr) Kiran Rukadikar, bariatric physician, obesity consultant and founder of DietQueen. "Indians generally eat homemade food including roti, sabzi (vegetables and salads), dal, rice, non-veg, milk and fruits, that cover almost all essential nutrients," he adds.
Now, this sounds simple and may be good news for those scratching their heads over maintaining a balanced diet for taking in adequate nutrients. Amid a hectic work life, it has become a common trend for people skipping their daily meals or indulging in unhealthy eating habits, while all the time worrying about their intake of protein, carbohydrates and fats. This leads to a number of diet plans, which remain unfollowed and a switch to nutrition supplements as an alternative to dietary intake of such macro and micro nutrients
As dietician Vidhi Chawla, founder of Fisico Diet Clinic, says, it is first important to understand the concept of balanced diet, which can help an individual overcome nutrition deficiencies, stress, diseases, and can give an individual the instant boost and rejuvenation needed to carry out the daily tasks. "Pre-planning your diet can be beneficial because a balanced diet is a key to good health and a conscious effort has to be made by an individual to take care of the macronutrient (carbs, fats, and proteins) intake," she adds.
According to the experts, the amount of calories required by an individual mainly depends on their age, height, gender, blood sugar levels, working conditions and others. On an average, middle aged Indian men roughly will require 1800-2200 calories, and women 1500-1800 calories. These calories are to be supplied from three essential macro- nutrients:
1. Carbohydrates: 55-65 percent of calories
2. Proteins: 20-25 percent of calories
3. Fats: 15-20 percent of calories
How many times do you eat in a day? When to eat? And what to eat? These are some of the fundamental questions people find themselves looking for an answer.
Read the full article here: https://www.google.com/amp/s/www.mid-day.com/amp/lifestyle/food/article/keep-it-simple-how-to-plan-your-daily-diet-amid-a-hectic-work-schedule-23242308