In nearly,75 years of its esteemed history, Oscars for the best International film has rewarded the African production only three times and Bollywood has even failed to make a start. 

What lies behind the European domination in Oscars?

Ever since its inception in 1948, the desiderated Academy Award for the best international feature film — the category known as a "Best foreign language" film before 2020 — has overwhelmingly been awarded to European production movies.


However, in the past 15 years, non-European films have often won the Oscar, but continents such as Asia and South America remain under-represented. 

Of the three African prize-winners, two were French co-productions: "Z" and "Black and White in Color." The co-productions emerged from the ongoing ties between France and two of its former colonies, Algeria and the Ivory Coast, and the films supported from the great influence of the French film lobby in Hollywood. It was not until 2006 that a non-French-language film from Africa earned an Academy Award.

According to Steve Ayorinde, a renowned Nigerian film critic lobbying is an important profit factor: " Without collaborations, without support, without a major European and American institution or production companies investing in such a film, it will be difficult to market such a film to the world". Language is also among other barriers which make it difficult to get International recognition at the Academy Awards.

France and Italy are the perennial favourites, with more than half of the wins. Both countries have a strong impact on Hollywood, while films from African, Asian or South American countries remain unnoticed.

Half of the Asian-winning films are Japanese productions. Despite the size of Bollywood's film industry, India has also never won the best international film award. 

Film critics from these countries also point out the lack of fairness in the voting process, the importance of marketing in Academy awards as other factors for this ignorance.

Whatever has been the history of Academy awards in the recognition of the true art from across the world, it's time for equality and fairness to be brought into the scene where only the deserving gets the highest glory.