Eggs are the most nutritious protein-packed meal option that one can have at any hour of the day. It is probably everyone’s most favourite source of protein. But with the hype of veganism taking over the world at a fast pace, animal protein has taken a back step. In order to bridge the protein gap, several brands have developed plant-based meats, ice creams, and so on. Similarly, vegan eggs have been introduced in the market and this is all one needs to know about this plant-based alternative. 
Vegan eggs are processed by mixing mung and soya extracts, legumes, peas, chickpeas, and all other plant sources. A little bit of turmeric is added to imitate the yellowness of the chicken eggs. The liquid vegan egg resembles the egg yolk and one can make a variety of dishes using it. From scrambled eggs to omelettes, vegan eggs can be used in any form. This alternative is made in such a way that it resembles chicken eggs in looks and texture! 
​Pros of Vegan Eggs
Whoever came up with the concept of vegan eggs is a genius because people are shocked to realise the similarities between replicas and regular eggs. It is so similar in both taste and look wise, that it becomes very difficult for someone to differentiate between the faux egg and the original egg! Vegan eggs are great news for all those vegans who have been missing out on their egg proteins. Another good thing about vegan eggs is like every other plant-based alternative, it is cholesterol free and thus aren’t a threat. Opting out for plant-based proteins over animal proteins also reduces the carbon footprint and helps the environment remain clean and green. 
​Cons of Vegan Eggs
This plant-based alternative does not match up to the protein level of original eggs. Vegan eggs are processed food and thus not heart-healthy. While the nutritional value of every chicken egg is the same, the nutrient value of vegan eggs differs from brand to brand. Since this is a new concept, the market hasn't taken to vegan eggs and thus unlike regular eggs, not everyone has access to this plant-based egg alternative. 