This morning reports came out from Germany that Bernd Leno was unhappy at being dropped by Arsenal stating, 'it wasn't about quality... but only about politics'. The article seems to suggest that this was about Arsenal's new American goalkeeper Matt Turner, but I find it hard to believe that Leno would've been happy continuing in his deputy rote. Regardless, Leno has now left the club and Aaron Ramsdale remains the main man between the sticks. At times he has polarised opinions both inside and outside of the Arsenal fanbase, I will briefly discuss my opinions on the still young English goalkeeper.

Firstly, shot stopping. Now this is clearly the most important aspect of goalkeeping, however, people can often fall into the trap of overstating its importance. For example, according to @jhdharrison1's model (which I will keep referring to) despite De Gea preventing 4.88 more xG from general shot stopping last season, his overall value in goals was 4.25 greater than the United man due to other aspects of his game. So in terms of shot stopping Ramsdale put up above average numbers last season but it wouldn't be considered the strongest part of his game, and he's started this season relatively poorly in that regard.

Now onto everything else. As for his strengths, Ramsdale ranked 2nd out of the top 6 keepers in terms of cross claiming, only behind Alisson, and notably in an area in which Leno especially struggled. In addition to this, in terms of overall passing he ranked 3rd only behind Alisson and unsurprisingly Ederson, an aspect particularly important in a possession based side. In contrast, an area where he has particularly struggled is his shot handling, ranking bottom of the big 6 goalkeepers and conceding 2 more than the average PL goalkeeper last season because of it.

In conclusion, Ramsdale remains a baby in goalkeeper terms at only 24 years old. Right now I believe he is a top quality keeper who suits Arsenal's style well but the real excitement comes from his potential. When considering his physicality, technical ability and most importantly mentality, the sky really is the limit.

#PixstoryArsenal #Arsenal