As for any meaningful anniversary, gift-giving will be an important part of the Queen’s platinum jubilee celebrations. Over the years, the Queen has received several priceless, unusual and quirky, but also simple and yet very personal gifts from foreign officials, various businesses and organisations and from members of the public. Those gifts attract curiosity and media scrutiny about their nature, appropriateness, the givers’ motivations, but also the Queen’s reaction and responses.

Media outlets have widely reported the gifts presented for the platinum jubilee by Azerbaijani president Ilham Aliyev of a beautiful Karabakh horse and two horse sculptures by sculptor Faiq Hajiyev. At home, the Houses of Parliament will present the Queen with a pair of lampposts adorned with bronze sculptures of heraldic beasts of the United Kingdom worth £175,000.

Not all gifts carry such a high price tag. For example, gifts offered to the Queen for her golden jubilee in 2002 included knitted toys, portraits, banners, tea cosies, china corgis, books and videos. We expect similar gifts to be sent for the platinum jubilee.

For the last year, we have conducted interviews with people who have given at least one gift to a member of the royal family to try to understand the motivation of these present-givers. Our ongoing research has found that simple thoughtful gifts, often homemade, carrying personal meanings are preferred by gift-givers. For example, handmade cards, drawings, recorded video messages, flowers from gift givers’ gardens, scrapbooks and framed photos are popular.

Gifts presented by members of the public are prepared for the royals’ various life milestones (weddings, births, birthdays), notable anniversaries (such as jubilees), but also various official duties (state visits, inaugurations). To be “part of history” motivated some respondents to send a small gift, a letter or a card.

Read more - https://theconversation.com/jubilee-from-home-movies-to-tea-cosies-why-people-love-sending-gifts-to-the-queen-184195