When his friendship with a known felon came to light recently, Mayor Adams defended himself — and his friend.

Adams cast his relationship with businessman Zhan “Johnny” Petrosyants as innocuous and dismissed the idea that his pal “should be discarded forever” because he and his twin brother, Robert, pleaded guilty to conspiracy to cause the filing of false currency transaction reports in 2014.

But while his relationship with Adams may be social in nature, the Daily News has learned that Johnny Petrosyants and his brother have ties to a key player in the mayor’s inner circle that may extend beyond camaraderie.

Court records unearthed by The News reveal a connection between the Petrosyants brothers and a business that was controlled by Frank Carone, Adams’ chief of staff and longtime political confidant. A log of emails submitted as part of a federal lawsuit in Brooklyn shows more than a dozen communications about the business between Carone, the Petrosyants twins and others — all of which were exchanged years after the brothers’ guilty pleas.

In an eyebrow-raising twist, Carone’s venture, which allegedly advanced money to doctors who had filed no-fault medical insurance claims, was in the same general arena of business in which federal authorities said the Petrosyants brothers were involved.

After the Petrosyants twins’ February 2014 guilty pleas to felony charges stemming from an investigation of their no-fault insurance business, Robert was sentenced to six months in prison while Johnny got five years’ probation, community service and hundreds of thousands of dollars in fines.

The optics of spending time with a known felon could be a problem for Carone — and by extension, the mayor.

Since being tapped as Adams’ chief of staff last month, Carone says he has divested all his business interests or placed them in a blind trust.

Carone, who served as a partner at the Abrams Fensterman law firm for over a decade before his City Hall appointment, has not been accused of any wrongdoing related to no-fault insurance claims.

Read more
https://www.nydailynews.com/news/politics/new-york-elections-government/ny-nyc-mayor-eric-adams-frank-carone-zhan-johnny-petrosyants-20220224-dpp6bgwukra5jn46lkyo3lkw3i-story.html