For many students, heading off to university means moving away from home and to a new place, facing the prospect of making new friends or adjusting to larger class sizes. For some it will also mean readapting to in-person learning.

Amid the normal life transitions from teenage years into adulthood, the pandemic introduced new stressors and interruptions, instigating changes to most people’s daily lives and routines. Students may have experienced additional challenges such as reduced social contact with friends and supports.

These factors, individually or collectively, can negatively impact learning and lead to worsening mental health. Our research shows that during the pandemic, one in three university students reported elevated rates of anxiety and depression. This means that a large portion of students experienced feelings of sadness, hopelessness and/or excessive worry.

The transition to a new school year will be an important time to focus on strategies for fostering positive mental health and well-being in addition to recognising signs that help may be needed.

1. Show yourself empathy and compassion
If you found yourself feeling unmotivated and stressed during the pandemic, you are not alone. Many students struggled with mental health concerns prior to, and during, the pandemic.

During tough times, being understanding, empathetic and practising self-compassion can improve your mental health.

This means approaching upsetting emotions without judgment, rather than ignoring them, and showing yourself care instead of criticism. These practices can improve your mood and help you cope.

Similarly, when friends and loved ones need support, there are ways to show them empathy and compassion. This might involve listening to them without judgement and validating their feelings.

2. Re-connect or get connected
Research shows that we feel better when we feel supported.

If you feel like you are struggling with your mental health, re-connect with a trusted friend, family member or peer. Setting yourself up for positive well-being this school year might also involve making new connections through participation in on- or off-campus clubs or groups.

Read more: https://theconversation.com/5-ways-students-can-foster-positive-mental-health-at-university-186455