Jasprit Bumrah, Yuzuvendra Chahal, KL Rahul, Shreyas Iyer, Rishabh Pant, Deepak Chahar, Navdeep Saini, Ishaan Kishan, Suryakumar Yadav… and many more, can we imagine our Indian Cricket team without these names anymore? They owe a lot of gratitude to the IPL if they are all members of the Indian cricket squad. India would not have been able to dominate without the fantastic talent we have and thanks to the IPL. In one of the panel discussions on this topic, Soumya Bhattacharya, an Indian Journalist and an author of the book, You must like Cricket? asked the question, “how many young cricketers have sustained the recognition they had got during IPL matches?” Though it is quite a valid point to raise, but we also need to understand IPL offers the players with the experience and competition like no other. IPL provides the correct exposure to the young players to improve as they play with and against the best in the industry. 

Take Suryakumar Yadav for our case study here. He made his first-class debut against Delhi during the 2010-11 Ranji Trophy. He received an IPL contract in 2012 season from Mumbai Indians, In the 2014 IPL auctions, Kolkata Knight Riders purchased him. He gained notoriety during the IPL 2015 when he defeated Mumbai at Eden Gardens with a game-winning 20-ball 46 that included five sixes. He played frequently and was named the team's vice-captain. In the 2018 IPL auctions, Mumbai Indians paid 3.2 crore for him. Prior to the IPL 2022 mega auction, the Mumbai Indians retained him after an impressive run with them for INR 8Cr. Meanwhile, let us have a look at his growth in other sectors of cricket. In October 2018 and October 2019, he was named in India C's squad for the 2018–19 Deodhar Trophy and2019–20 Deodhar Trophy respectively. He led the Mumbai cricket team in the 2020-21 Syed Mushtaq Ali Trophy. There is nobody who does not know his name or is not impressed by his way of playing the game with the spirit of winning. He made his T20I debut for India on 14 March 2021, against England. 

(Image Credits: IPL)