HIV remains a major public health challenge globally. Around 38 million people are estimated to be living with the infection. Sub-Saharan Africa bears the brunt of the HIV epidemic. Close to two thirds of the HIV cases are in the region.
But huge strides have been made in curbing the epidemic. One of the keys to this has been the introduction of antiretroviral therapy (ART). It’s resulted in people with HIV living long, productive lives and reducing the risks of HIV transmission.
HIV has a high mutation rate, however. As a result, there is evidence of HIV variants with resistance to almost all available antiretroviral drugs. The development of variants with drug resistant mutations is a major challenge to the success of ART – and therefore to efforts to achieve the UN goal of ending AIDS by 2030.
In developing countries, screening for HIV drug resistant variants is done only when patients who are on treatment have high viral loads – over 1,000 copies/ml, as per the World Health Organization guidelines. This means drug resistant HIV variants in patients with low viral loads aren’t detected. This is the case in many countries in sub-Saharan Africa – including Botswana.
We set out to establish three things.
Firstly, what percentage of patients on ART had low HIV viral loads. This is data that’s never been collected before. Secondly, we wanted to determine HIV drug resistant mutations in this cohort of patients. The third thing we set to establish is whether there’s a connection between patients with low viral loads and treatment failure. This is known as virologic failure.
Answering these three questions has given us a much deeper understanding of where a country like Botswana stands in its efforts to eliminate HIV. As a result of our research we have a better understanding of how many people with HIV have low viral loads, how serious a threat we face from drug resistant HIV variants and finally how many people with low viral levels are at risk of treatment failure.
Read more: https://theconversation.com/hiv-patients-in-botswana-get-adequate-treatment-but-not-all-of-them-one-group-is-slipping-through-the-cracks-188764