Freddie Ljungberg started his youth career at Swedish club Halmstads BK. He moved up the age rankings despite it being against club rules. He made 139 appearances and scored 16 goals at Halmstads before signing for Arsenal. Arsene Wenger made the unusual move of sanctioning the signing after watching him play on television. Ljungberg endeared himself to fans by scoring on his debut against rivals Manchester United. He had a strong season in 1999-2000 but missed the UEFA Cup Final due to injury. He scored the opener in the 2001 FA Cup final but Arsenal lost out to two late Michael Owen goals. Ljungberg had a spectacular season in 2001-02, as he led his team to the double. He scored 17 goals in all competitions, including in the FA Cup final which made him the first player in 4 decades to score in consecutive finals. He led Arsenal to their third straight FA Cup final the next season, scoring the winning goal in the semi-final. Ljungberg was also vital in the Invincibles season, making 30 appearances. In 2004-05, he played in his 4th FA Cup final and scored in the shootout against United. Ljungberg played in Arsenal’s only ever Champions League final against Barcelona in 2006. Persistent injury problems accelerated Ljungberg’s exit from the club. In 2006-07, he went off injured in the first half of an April game against Tottenham Hotspurs and it proved to be his last appearance for the club. Ljungberg was voted 11th in a 2008 poll of Arsenal’s Greatest 50 players. Ljungberg signed for West Ham but could only make 25 appearances and score 2 goals. After a brief hiatus from football, Ljungberg signed as a designated player for new MLS side Seattle Sounders. He also had short stints at Chicago Fire, Celtic, Shimizu S-Pulse, and Mumbai City before retiring in 2014.
When Unai Emery was let go in late 2019, Freddie Ljungberg took charge as interim coach. He was already on the first team coaching squad. He continued as coach for the rest of the season after Mikel Arteta was appointed as permanent manager, leaving to pursue other opportunities in August 2020.