1) Fulbright-Nehru Doctoral Research Fellowships:
These fellowships, available for six to nine months, are for Indian academics enrolled in a Ph.D. program at an Indian institution. These are welcome in various academic disciplines, such as computer science, bioengineering, performing arts, public health, chemistry, anthropology, agricultural sciences, and more.
 
Aligibility criteria:
·       Must have done a sufficient study in a pertinent area.
·       If the candidate is working, their employer should have approved them.
·       Must upload a copy of the Masters/MPhil thesis' initially delivered or published paper to the online application form.
·       Must be highly qualified, professional, and
·       Academic excellence
·       Should demonstrate English competence
·       Linguistic competence
·       Should not reside in the US at the time of placement
 
Benefits:
·       J-1 visa assistance
·       Accident and illness plan for exchanges following US government regulations
·       A monthly allowance
·       Round-trip airfare in economy class
·       Opportunities in the US for non-degree auditing, experience-building, and research (for selected doctoral scholars)
·       Reasonable affiliation costs and necessary payments, if required
 
2) The Inlaks Shivdasani Scholarships:
Young Indians seeking full-time master's, MPhil, or doctoral programs at prestigious universities in the US, Europe, or the UK are awarded Inlaks scholarships.
Business and finance, computer science, fashion design, engineering, public health, management studies, medicine, dentistry, and associated treatments, as well as music, are all fields in which the Inlaks Shivdasani Foundation does not award scholarships.
 
Eligibility criteria:
·       Should have lived in India for the previous six months.
·       The minimum academic grade required for mathematics, the environment, and related courses from an accredited Indian institution should be 70%, a CGPA of 7.2, or a GPA of 2.8.
·       The minimum academic grade required for humanities, law, fine arts, architecture, social sciences, and allied fields should be 65% or CGPA 6.8 or GPA 2.6 from an accredited Indian institution.
·       The applicant must not be younger than 30 years old in the application year.
 
Benefits:
·       Complete tuition costs, sufficient living expenses, a health allowance, and round-trip transportation costs
·       A maximum of $10,000 in financing.