Chelsea overtook Arsenal at the top of the WSL table after scoring four goals in the first 11 minutes of their 9-0 triumph over Leicester. Chelsea were given the opportunity to eventually reach the summit as Saturday's north London derby between Jonas Eidevall's Gunners and Tottenham was postponed owing to a Covid outbreak in the Spurs camp. Guro Reiten, Beth England, and Sam Kerr each scored two goals, while Aniek Nouwen, Lauren James, and Jessie Fleming each contributed one.

Emma Hayes' team now has 41 points from 17 league games, one more than Arsenal, while Leicester remains in second place.
On a gloriously sunny afternoon in Leicestershire, Reiten kicked off the crucial triumph with a spectacular free-kick with just three minutes on the clock. Kerr took advantage of some sloppy defending to score at the second attempt after Foxes goalie Demi Lambourne had saved her opening shot. Surprisingly, England scored after Kerr's square ball with seven minutes gone, and the Blues added a fourth when Nouwen assisted England's attempt shortly after.

Leicester found a rare opening as the tempo dropped as their opponents gave up possession cheaply, but their promising counter ended in disappointment when Freya Gregory could only reach the side netting.

The irrepressible Reiten set up the fifth goal with a superb ball to the far post, which England headed home, and then added her second of the game with a mis-hit cross that fell graciously across the line deep into first-half stoppage time.

Kerr guided a header - Chelsea's seventh - into the bottom right corner just moments after the restart, killing any momentum Leicester manager Lydia Bedford had generated with her half-time team talk, but the hosts kept their opponents at bay for long periods, despite being left chasing shadows for the most part.

Later on, that changed. James scored her first goal for Chelsea with a beautiful finish from a Niamh Charles pull-back, and Fleming rounded off a smart assault in stoppage time.

Player of the match - Guro Reiten