TikTok, the video sharing social networking service owned by Chinese company ByteDance, suspended its live streaming and new content from Russia—hit by the country’s upcoming laws to crack down “fake news” from the war zone. The new law is meant to censor all information emerging from Russia’s invasion in Ukraine, but President Vladimir Putin and its officials wants to depict it as a “special military operation” to liberate some oppressed people, from a “Nazi regime” in eastern Ukraine. Anyone who reports news or shows video the authority deems to be fake or misleading about the Russian military could be jailed for up to 15 years.

TikTok authorities said in a statement that they are suspending operations to protect their employees while they are weighing the safety implications of the new Russian law. Last week, the social media platform joined Meta, Twitter and YouTube in banning or partially censoring Russia’s state-backed information. US and Europe appealed to the tech giants to stop offering any service to Russia while Russian authorities pressured them to censor their content for Russian consumers.

Caught in the information war between the two sides, TikTok took the decision to suspend its live streaming in and out of Russia, despite the fact that around 36 million people in Russia use the app. In the statement they also described the war as “devastating” and “painful”, perhaps to ward off the criticism that, unlike other similar platforms, they haven’t spoken out against the brutal invasion in Ukraine.  

TikTok has been playing a key role in disseminating live war footage shot by Ukrainians in the war zone. Some of the footage helps depict the reality of war, but there are also fake videos – such as the Ghost of Kyiv, generated from a video- games – that can be misleading. Suspending operation in Russia will deprive people there from getting the real picture of war, as opposed to propaganda dished out by their state-owned media outlets.  

READ MORE: https://www.bbc.com/news/business-60641988

https://www.wired.com/story/ukraine-russia-war-tiktok/

https://www.reuters.com/technology/tiktok-suspends-livestreaming-new-uploads-russia-2022-03-06/