Following the Emmy-winning actor's horrible vehicle accident last Friday, Anne Heche's family and friends hoped for a miracle. It didn't come, and her family is making the agonising decision to remove her from life support after she was declared brain dead. She is on a ventilator until it is decided whether any organs that were not damaged in the crash and following fire can be donated.

"We want to thank everyone for their well thoughts and prayers for Anne's recovery, as well as the committed staff and great nurses at the Grossman Burn Center at West Hills Hospital in Los Angeles."

Unfortunately, Anne Heche suffered a severe anoxic brain injury as a result of her accident and is still in a coma in critical condition. "She is not expected to survive," a family and friends rep told Deadline.

Her decision to donate her organs has long been her choice, and she is being kept on life support to see whether any are viable.

"Anne had a big heart and her giving spirit impacted everyone she met." More than her remarkable talent, she considered her life's mission as spreading kindness and joy, particularly moving the needle for acceptance of who you love. She will be remembered for her brave honesty and will be much missed for her light."

Honor Walk is a hero's goodbye that donation patients receive from hospital staff as they are brought into the surgery room on their ultimate trip. That choice has yet to be made.Heche had been in the hospital since Friday, August 5, when she rammed her car into a house in Mar Vista and set it on fire. 

Fifty-nine firefighters fought the blaze that had engulfed both Heche's car and the house for 65 minutes until she could be safely extracted from the ruins. Heche was apparently able to converse at the moment of her rescue, but she soon lost consciousness and has been in a coma since.

On Monday, August 8, Heche's health was described as "very critical."
Based on the blood work, it revealed the presence of narcotics,” Officer Lizeth Lomeli of the LAPD told Deadline on Wednesday.