Manchester United fullbacks are a concern. The duo of Luke Shaw and ALex Telles have not been able to hold down the left-back fort. If we go by chronological order, there is no order because Man United's starting lineup needs a massive shakeup from goalkeeper to forward.

Incoming boss Erik Ten Hag has 4-5 players in his mind, which he wants to bring in the 2022-23 season. 


United’s left back position has been a major concern. Luke Shaw after his glittering spell last season, where he was the main player for United getting to 2nd place and reaching the Europa Final and the Euro 2022 which he lost both of them. This season, he looks all out of form plus injuries have not been kind to him. Alex Telles, the Brazilian who was bought by ex-manager Ole Gunnar Solskjaer in 2020 for his attacking display from Porto has also not been performing well too. Despite Alavaro Fernandez being from the academy and returning loanee Brandon Williams waiting in the wings, the new boss wants a new left-back. Borna Sosa could be the man to replace them if Erik Ten Hag gets his man.


Historical Background


The Croatian was born in the small town of Precko, which is a neighborhood to Zagreb. He was tutored and made a footballer in Dinamo Zagreb FC. He made his debut at the tender age of 17. Ten years after joining the academy, but he had to patiently wait for three more years before nailing down a starting role. 


In May 2018, he joined Stuttgart for five years. Due to his injuries he suffered during his first stint at the German club, Stuttgart was relegated to the second tier of Bundesliga. He however made his team bounce back to the first tier. His play has often been compared to ex- Manchester United legend and Inter Miami owner David Beckham, for his attacking ability and whipping dangerous crosses, despite him being a left-back. While growing up, his idols were David Beckham and David Alaba of Real Madrid. He sports long blonde hair and he is known for whipping dangerous crosses and creating dangerous chances.