Breastfeeding and mental health is the relationship between postpartum breastfeeding and the mother's and child's mental health. Research indicates breastfeeding may have positive effects on the mother's and child's mental health, though there have been conflicting studies that question the correlation and causation of breastfeeding and maternal mental health. Possible benefits include improved mood and stress levels in the mother, lower risk of postpartum depression, enhanced social emotional development in the child, stronger mother-child bonding and more. Given the benefits of breastfeeding, the World Health Organization (WHO), the European Commission for Public Health (ECPH) and the American Academy of Pediatrics (AAP) suggest exclusive breastfeeding for the first six months of life. Despite these suggestions, estimates indicate 70% of mothers breastfeed their child after birth and 13.5% of infants in the United States are exclusively
breastfed. Breastfeeding promotion and support for mothers who are experiencing difficulties or early cessation in breastfeeding is considered a health priority.


The exact nature of the relationship between breastfeeding and some aspects of mental health is still unclear to scientists. The causal links are uncertain due to the variability of how breastfeeding and its effects are measured across studies. There are complex interactions between numerous psychological, sociocultural and biochemical factors which are not yet fully understood.



Breastfeeding and mother's mental health ; 

1 Benefits on mood and stress levels

Some studies indicate that breastfeeding positively influences the mother's mental and emotional wellbeing as it improves mood and stress levels, and it is referred to as a 'stress buffer' for mothers during the postpartum period. However, other studies indicate that the stress of breastfeeding may have a negative impact on maternal mental health, especially when presented in an all-or-none, "Breast is best" manner.  The activity facilitates a calmer psychological state and decreases feelings of anxiousness, negative emotions and stress.

2 Effects of postpartum depression on breastfeeding

Studies indicate mothers with postpartum depression breastfeed their infant with lower frequency. 

Read more - https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Breastfeeding_and_mental_health