One of the biggest names in modern day heavy metal and pioneers of what is called The New Wave of American Heavy Metal alongside bands such as Machine Head, Trivium, Killswitch Engage, Darkest Hour and Mastodon, Lamb Of God has been around for years and at this point they little to prove.
The band’s latest album ‘Omens’ is their ninth album and as expected it is a ferocious and relentless bombardment of heavy riffs, intense vocals and awesome groovy drumming bringing a potent and sexy mixture of hardcore punk, heavy metal and thrash metal.
Musically, this is as heavy and brutal as Lamb Of God has ever been, a fiery mix of metal with strong hardcore fervour that simply does not give a shit and is completely unapologetic making the music prime material for some hardcore, intense and painful headbanging.
Despite being predictable, there is a level of dynamic aggression, rhythmic fluidity and an overall natural organic feel that makes it such a fun listen that a progressive structure or tone would do a disservice to this record.
Throughout their career, Lamb of God have riddled their songs with pertinent subject matter ranging from themes of society, misery, religion and politics. Given all that has happened in the last few years, if anything the band has even more material to write on.
‘Nevermore’ is a furious opener while ‘Vanishing’ is a great thrash song with hardcore aggression that keeps things fresh. ‘To The Grave’, ‘Ditch’, ‘Gomorrah’ and ‘Omens’ are some of the catchiest, most re-playable and badass tracks that Lamb Of God have put out in the past decade.
‘Denial Mechanism’ is a fast paced and very intense hardcore punk track with metallic fervour while ‘September Song’ is a six minute track that wraps up things with the weight and intensity of a sledgehammer.
In ‘Omens’ Lamb Of God have not changed a bit but they still manage to keep things fresh and burning with a raging fire that makes it both a banger and an impressive album that successfully showcases the full range and scale of the band’s abilities.
Score: 8.5/10