On a night when much of the NBA world was focused on a clash of leading Kia MVP candidates – Philadelphia’s Joel Embiid vs. Denver’s Nikola Jokic – there was another head-to-head showdown of hardware interest.

In ESPN’s nightcap coverage Monday, two Kia Defensive Player of the Year favorites and lofty rung-holders on the Defensive Player Ladder went at it in Salt Lake City. Giannis Antetokounmpo’s Milwaukee squad beat Rudy Gobert’s Utah crew 117-111, with the work of both big men as interesting to watch as anything that transpired offensively.

Neither player might send the video to DPOY voters, considering the point totals, but their styles and responsibilities were on stage frequently. Neither was credited with a blocked shot, curiously, but their discouragement factor was high. Each team scored 38 points in the paint, with the Jazz shooting 39.8% to the Bucks’ 46.5%.

The biggest wrinkle defensively for Milwaukee was the return of center Brook Lopez, making his first appearance since Opening Night after missing 67 of the first 68 games. Lopez, a 2020 All-Defense selection, came off the bench with a minutes restriction in his return from back surgery. He started the second quarter – and the Jazz dropped from 39 points in the first 12 minutes to 20 in the next 12.

Coincidentally, Draymond Green – the No. 1 choice for this season’s first two Ladder editions – made his return to Golden State’s lineup. The “middle linebacker” (his term) of the Warriors’ defense had not played in more than two months due to his own back issues

Green played off the bench, too, and like Lopez (plus-13 in 14 minutes), led his team in plus-minus at plus-24 in 20 minutes in the 126-112 cruise over Washington. Clearly, it’s good to have the big fellas back.

Green returned in all his entertaining, candid glory. In the hours before tipoff, he reminded everyone of the DPOY status he had earned in playing 33 of Golden State’s first 37 games. “I don’t know what league everybody else been watching,” Green said, “but I have not seen anyone solidify themselves as the Defensive Player of the Year.”

Credit :- NBA.com