Federal Labor has promised a vote on a national integrity commission by the end of this year if it wins the federal election.

The federal opposition has long campaigned for the anti-corruption body and attacked the Coalition for not introducing one, but its timeline for introducing one has been unclear until now.

Prime Minister Scott Morrison announced plans for a commission in December 2018, but legislation was not introduced to parliament for a vote, with disagreement on what powers and scope the body should have.

In a statement, Opposition Leader Anthony Albanese said "Australians have waited more than 1,200 days for the national integrity commission to be introduced to parliament".

"I am proud to announce that a national anti-corruption commission would be one of the first priorities of a government I lead," Mr Albanese said.

"Mr Morrison has delayed and obfuscated for over three years — and then this week it became clear he has absolutely no intention of honouring his promise to deliver a national anti-corruption commission at all."

PM claims Labor opposition to bill

On the campaign trail this week, Mr Morrison repeated his position that the bill was not introduced into parliament because Labor was opposed to it, despite the Coalition having a majority in the lower house.

The Prime Minister has repeatedly said he has "tabled" the legislation in the House of Representatives, a process that merely puts it on the parliamentary record, rather than kickstarting debate on its merits.

"On many pieces of legislation, I don't go through theatrical exercises in the parliament," the Prime Minister said.

"What I do is I seek to have legislation passed, and where I believe legislation can be passed that is in the national interest, then I'd pursue that."

It is understood Labor would seek to legislate a national integrity commission even if the Coalition did not support the proposed model.

Labor has previously voiced support for an integrity commission looking into actions taken by earlier governments.

Shadow Attorney-General Mark Dreyfus has previously highlighted the "sports rorts" scandal as worthy of referral to a national integrity commission.

https://www.abc.net.au/news/2022-04-16/labor-promises-national-integrity-commission-by-christmas/100995104