By Aurangzeb Naqshbandi 
New Delhi: Last week, Maratha strongman Sharad Pawar was re-elected as the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) chief, a post he has held since forming the party 23 years ago in 1999.
That means 81-year-old Pawar will continue to hold the post for another four years.
Pawar is undoubtedly a shrewd politician who believes in doing the impossible.
His move to bring together the Congress and the Shiv Sena apart from his party to form a coalition government in Maharashtra could genuinely be described as a masterstroke.
He had stunned the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), which tried to stage a coup in his party by roping in his nephew Ajit Pawar, who for all practical purposes is the number two in the NCP.
Though the coup had then failed, the BJP, two-and-a-half years later, managed to split the Shiv Sena vertically through Thackeray family loyalist Eknath Shinde, who subsequently took over as the chief minister with the BJP's support. Former chief minister Devendra Fadnavis agreed to become his deputy.
Sharad Pawar broke ranks with the Congress in 1998 soon after Sonia Gandhi became the Congress president. He along with Tariq Anwar and PA Sangma revolted against Gandhi ostensibly on the issue of her foreign origin. The three were later expelled from the Congress and Sonia Gandhi was forced to come back as the party chief.
Months after forming the NCP in 1999, Sharad Pawar aligned with the Congress only to form a coalition government in Maharashtra. The two parties remained in power in Maharashtra uninterrupted till 2014.
He subsequently became a trusted partner of the Congress and later joined the United Progressive Alliance (UPA) government at the Centre in 2004 and remained a key part of it till 2014.
The political astuteness of the Maratha strongman is evident in his strategy that he did not mind joining hands with the same party that had thrown him out some months ago.
Read more: https://www.newsdrum.in/analysis/a-lost-opportunity-sharad-pawar-should-have-settled-the-leadership-issue-in-ncp-90717.html