We thought alcoholism and deaths due to alcohol consumption is more of a third world problem. You would however be surprised that 2500 people die because of alcohol each day in Europe alone. 
This data was shared by WHO as they launch a signature initiative to raise taxes on alcohol in the region. 
According to WHO statement ( on February 23 , 2022) many thousands of lives could be saved each year in the WHO European Region, if Member States introduced more taxes on alcohol. Across the Region, taxes on the sale of alcohol are lower than taxes on tobacco. To enhance the untapped power of health taxes, the WHO Regional Director for Europe’s Advisory Council on Innovation and Noncommunicable Diseases (NCD Advisory Council) has proposed a new signature initiative on taxation for countries to consider in their fiscal policies.

The statement further says 
Across the Region, alcohol consumption leads to almost 1 million deaths each year from a wide range of causes, including cardiovascular diseases, cancer and other noncommunicable diseases (NCDs), as well as infectious diseases and injuries. Every day in the Region, around 2500 people die because of alcohol.

Decades of research and country experiences from all over the world have shown that increasing the price of alcoholic beverages through taxation is one of the most cost-effective policies used to lower drinking levels and alcohol-attributable harm. This has been recognized as a “best buy” intervention by WHO, delivering greater health impacts in reducing illness, disability and premature death than other policy options.

However, alcohol taxation remains one of the least implemented measures, largely due to opposition from economic operators and because price increases are generally unpopular with the public.
This is why the NCD Advisory Council is launching this signature initiative that focuses on 5 key areas that will increase the untapped potential of health taxes for alcohol in the Region in an unprecedented way.

Alcohol taxation: effective but neglected health measure.
“In the context of alcohol, taxation should be considered as a health measure, and not purely and economic instrument. 
Read the full statement below 

https://www.euro.who.int/en/health-topics/disease-prevention/alcohol-use/news/news/2022/02/new-who-signature-initiative-shows-raising-alcohol-taxes-could-save-130-000-lives-per-year