Darlings has scored a fair share of compliments from movie buffs. What amused me while watching this movie is the bold protection a mother gives to her soft-hearted daughter in life. Badru is still in her filmy world. Like any middle-class girl obsessed with a better tomorrow, she overlooks many of her hubby’s repeated psychic acts. That’s how you see her making buns and omelette for him after a crushed night.

But Shamshu, the mother effortlessly played by Shefali Shah keeps a third eye on Badru’s husband Hamza. And that eye is constantly open to the next house where her daughter lives. Every morning both converse through eyes from two windows. If Badru seems low, Shamshu immediately calls and checks. Darlings’ statement lies in this simple act! Keep this routine with your children every day and ensure them a roof in odds discarding all social biases, you are done!

Badrunissa, exceptionally portrayed by Alia Bhatt is still confused weighing the right and wrong between her mother and hubby. She respects her mother for raising her boldly as a single parent though her emotional quotient doesn’t copy her mother’s genes. Perhaps, she has fed the meek girl in her until Shamshu uncaps her real potential. For Shamshu could see her own innocent, volatile youth in her daughter. Shamshu’s first option is to send Hamza to jail. When her daughter fails her in that attempt, her dignity is at stake. Shamshu closes her emotional windows to her daughter. It reopens only when Badru is pregnant. Now, her surveillance is sharper. Killing Hamza is her first thought. Her bold and beautiful moves control us with conviction and we join the mission. Who has the audacity to steal your right to live a vibrant life? As the disappointed cop says – because you allow them to do so!

Jasmeet K. Reen forces us to believe it’s not her debut as a director. Totally unbiased direction. Clubbed by a gender-neutral script co-authored by Parveez Shaikh (Queen fame) breaks all conditioned moulds in showing domestic violence on screen. Darlings is totally a women’s world and women’s victory.