Even as landslides increased 2900% over five years in a fragile Himalayan state ravaged by deforestation and construction, the government of chief minister Pushkar Singh Dhami lifted environmental safeguards and made mining easier, two months before state elections. The High Court has demanded the government explain the changes, rushed through in 15 days in a state where mining companies are major funders of political parties.

Two months before elections were announced for Uttarakhand, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) government of chief minister Pushkar Singh Dhami changed a law and introduced two new policies that made mining easier in a state ravaged by environmental degradation.  

Introduced between 28 October and 11 November 2021, the amended rules and mining policies, said experts, violate several court orders and Indian laws by diluting environmental-clearance obligations for mining businesses. 

The new rules removed regulations—such as levelling land and cutting hills—around mining on private lands, allowed easier, even indiscriminate, mining of river beds and delayed for six more months, for the 13th time, a move to disallow illegal stone crushing near human habitation.

On 6 January 2022, the Uttarakhand High Court stayed permissions—relating only to one petitioner—granted under the new mining rules and demanded the state government explain the amendments, pushed through in 15 days. 

The amendments appeared to be timed for elections to 70 state assembly constituencies, polling for which was scheduled for 14 February 2022.

The new changes, environmentalists and experts said, favoured mining contractors and owners of stone crushers in a state where forests have been denuded over the years for roads, dams and other construction, leading to widespread environmental damage, including landslides, floods  and  other disasters. 

Some examples of environmental damage in the Himalayan state:

– Over five years to 2020, 37 bridges collapsed in Uttarakhand and another 27 bridges are on the brink of collapse. Locals attribute the bridge disaster to unbridled mining of sand from rivers, making floods more devastating.

Read more-  https://article-14.com/post/2-months-before-polls-uttarakhand-s-bjp-govt-made-mining-easier-in-state-ravaged-by-landslides-deforestation--6209c57071518