By BestMediaInfo Bureau
At a time when big tech companies like Apple and Google are being pushed to prioritise the consumer’s privacy and governments are looking to regulate social media platforms, it is important for advertisers to understand the importance of cookie-less marketing.
MMA- a marketing trade association that has 800 members from across the world, has released a detailed study called ‘Data protection and personalisation in a privacy-first world’- A marketer's guide on future-proofing data.
The report says that marketers need to put more effort into educating consumers about data usage and tracking. It says they need to find ways to ensure that privacy is not a hindrance to providing better products and services to the consumers. Rather, how a privacy-first approach to data can facilitate consumer trust in the brand.
The report further has points of view about privacy from leading marketing and data companies.
According to Snehi Mehta- Head of Marketing, India at Meta, “Personalised advertising is at the heart of the digital advertising ecosystem, which drives the digital economy and is consequential to the overall economic growth.”
“This makes it imperative for businesses, small and large, to find a fine balance between the evolving regulatory frameworks, shifting customer expectations, and the existing and new avenues of growth. If businesses can’t evolve to meet this moment, people may face a very different digital world, dominated by less personalised ads-creating a poor experience for them and increasing costs for advertisers. This stands to have a large economic impact too.”
She further spoke about how Meta is helping advertisers navigate this situation. She said they are making major investments across ad systems,  including building some of the most advanced infrastructure in the industry: conversion modelling techniques and privacy-enhancing technologies.
“Through these investments, our aspiration is to enable businesses to succeed on our platform while people don’t feel that an ad is intrusive or suspicious. We call this Performance on People’s Terms and while it’s a phrase we’ve recently introduced, it’s a philosophy that still guides us, and it remains at the heart of what we're building for even as the industry shifts.”
Read more
https://bestmediainfo.com/2022/08/how-marketers-can-navigate-advertising-in-a-privacyfirst-world