We see parents blaming their children when they show signs of resistance or indifferent behaviour. But do they ever think about whether they are the reason behind the deteriorating mental health of their child? 

Parents often think that because they have brought children into the world, they have ownership over their children. This is patriarchy functioning in the form of ego, possessiveness, and over protection. These factors cannot be justified. Just because you are afraid of certain things you cannot curb the freedom of an individual. After all your child is also an individual. Parents often think that abusing their children would teach them manners. Does it? It just teaches YOUR definition of discipline to your children but times changed and children are in a different environment hence you should be ready to change your attitudes too. 

I have seen some parents not even allowing the things that they have done to their children. Isn't pure hypocrisy! Instead of being this authoritative knowing figure try to have empathy for your child. Mental health is most discussed today learn about it and empathise with your children. 

Toxic parents use fear, guilt, and humiliation as tools to get what they want and ensure compliance from their children. They are often neglectful, emotionally unavailable, and abusive in some cases. They put their own needs before the needs of their children. Children who grow up in such dysfunctional families experience toxic stress daily. You have to fight the whole world to live. What if your parents are responsible for your suffering throughout your life? Each and every insecurity the child face would be caused by the parents! What will the children can they run away? 

Seek help if you are a child. You can report to authorities or therapists and seek them to talk to your parents. If you are an adult suffering from trauma caused by toxic parents. Just move on with your life, make decisions of your choice, and do your duties but stay detached. Choose what is best for your mental health.