Developed by India’s state owned Hindustan Aeronautics Limited (HAL), Tejas LCA (Light Combat Aircraft) is India’s indigenously developed 4.5 generation single seat and single engine multirole LCA. Given that it is the HAL and DRDO’s (Defence Research and Development Organization) first aircraft developed with export worthy intention, how does it fare? Currently countries such as UAE, Sri Lanka, Argentina, Australia. Egypt and Malaysia have expressed an interest in buying it.

A delta wing aircraft, Tejas boasts high maneuverability and agility that can fire close-combat Air-to-Air missiles , ‘Beyond Visual Range’ (BVR) missiles, conventional laser-guided smart bombs, air-to ground missiles as well as anti-ship missiles, 23 mm twin-barreled auto cannon and drop tanks. Furthermore, the BrahMos supersonic cruise missile is being developed for the Tejas.

The aircraft in total can carry more than 5500+kg of bombs and missiles. It can fly at a maximum speed of 2,205km/h and a maximum altitude of 15,200m. The range of the aircraft is 3,000km weighing approximately 5,450kg and has a maximum take-off weight of 13,500kg.

India’s terrain is very diverse, and therefore it was designed to be an all weather compatible aircraft, being effective in both the burning Thar desert of Rajasthan, or the very cold mountainous regions of Ladakh, be it day or night. Tejas has performed without a hitch in almost all conditions.  So its multi-role features are covered quite well.

Tejas employs a fly by wire system for aircraft stability, which basically replaces conventional manual interface with an electronic one. Tejas features a multi mode radar that features multi-target tracking in Air to Air and Air to Sea modes, overall enhancing the aircraft’s all-weather multi-role capability.

The supersonic jet features eight hardpoints with a maximum payload capacity of 3,500kg and seven weapon stations capable of carrying very versatile weapon system from Russian, American, Indian, French and Israeli. It also has an On-board Oxygen-Generating System, that generates breathable air for the pilot in flight ensuring a steady supply of air. It is also very cheap for all its functions, so yeah it is quite the advanced and impressive machine.   