IDEAS – Inspiring Dialogues for Environmental Action Series is a presentation by My Future My Voice campaign (MFMV), EarthDay.org s global initiative for young environmental leaders. As part of this initiative, we invite eminent personalities to share their experiences and lessons with our youth ambassadors and young climate leaders. 

Join us for the dialogue on Why we need more youth negotiators at COP27 between #HeetaLakhani and #SophieDaud. Heeta Lakhani is a climate educator who founded The ClimAct Initiative and Youth Ambassador, My Future My Voice initiative of EARTHDAY.ORG. Sophie Daud is the Chief Executive of the Future Leaders Network and Co-founder of the Climate Youth Negotiator Programme. More about them in the bios below. 

The session is scheduled for Monday, July 18, 2022 at GMT 1400 hours / IST 1930 hours.
 
Zoom Link: Register in advance for this webinar:
https://us02web.zoom.us/webinar/register/WN_HilkZY75R6S2Ks7RSTw5kQ 

After registering, you will receive a confirmation email containing information about joining the webinar.

Speaker Bios:
Sophie Daud 
Sophie Daud is the award-winning Chief Executive of the Future Leaders Network.
Sophie is passionate about creating the next generation of effective, ethical leaders.  In 2021, she held the title of Chair of the Y7 2021 - the official youth engagement group for the G7 process - which saw over 50,000 young people contribute to and engage with the U.K.’s G7 Presidency. In 2022 Sophie co-founded the Climate Youth Negotiator Programme/ Youth Negotiators Academy with Heeta, Marie-Claire and Veena, and is excited to empower and enable the next generation of climate change leaders in United Nations negotiations. 

Heeta Lakhani
A climate educator who founded The ClimAct Initiative, she strives to create changemakers that take knowledge-based climate action. Heeta was introduced to the world of the United Nations Climate Change process at COP21 in 2015 and was the Global Focal Point for YOUNGO for 2020-21. She also works on training youth to be effective negotiators in the UN processes through the Youth Negotiators Academy.
#MyFutureMyVoice #ClimateAction #ClimateJustice