It’s a celebration of local television, so it’s fitting that little-known Australian designers are the real winners at the Logies. International labels have attempted to infiltrate the event, but the high-impact red carpet moments belonged to bridal specialists and dressmakers that you won’t find near a Chanel or Louis Vuitton boutique, or in your nearest Westfield shopping centre.

Names such as Steven Khalil, Nicky Velani and Oglia-Loro are most familiar to brides preparing for their princess moments but at the Logies their intricate creations held the spotlight.

Velani took the traditional, block colour approach for Home and Away’s Ada Nicodemou who wore a strapless green gown with ruffled bodice, split in the skirt and train. For Total Control actor Deborah Mailman she created a white balloon-sleeved blouse worn with a black sequinned velvet skirt.

“I saw some people wearing international labels which is disappointing,” Velani says. “We make great clothes here and we should support Australian labels.”

In 2019 Velani created 11 looks for the Logies but this time only had resources to dress five stars, including presenters Lisa Wilkinson and Sarah Harris.

“Like all industries we are experiencing staff shortages,” Velani says. “There are only three of us sewing at the moment and I still have to send out wedding dresses. I’m very proud of what we’ve accomplished.”

Fellow bridal designer Steven Khalil was represented by Love Me nominee Bojana Novakovic in a sheer black, embellished dress with a plunging neckline, beaded in Bicone gold crystals, as well as SAS Australia’s Anna Heinrich. The strapless pink confection featured a sweet bow at the deep neckline and full skirt.

TV Week Logies ambassador Sophie Monk took the statuette approach in a strapless gold Khalil gown.

“It’s great to see the glam back after the last two years,” Khalil says.

Stylist Lana Wilkinson, who dressed model Simone Holtznagel in a pale pink dress from Mariam Seddiq, hopes that Australian labels will continue to dominate the enduring event.