Manchester United lost as Liverpool failed to win the opening match. 



8 teams won and 4 started with a draw on the opening day of the English Premier league season 2022-23. In a much eagerly awaited match of Manchester United, Brighton scored twice at Old Trafford and conceded one to register a win. 


Debutant Goal Scorers


1. Darwin Núñez - Liverpool - Uruguay

2. Kieffer Moore- AFC Bournemouth - Wales

3. Erling Haaland - Manchester City - Norway


Super transfers Nunez and Haaland scored on their debut matches for their clubs. Nunez's goal saved Liverpool from losing against newly promoted Fulham while City overcame West Ham with the help of Haaland's goal. Bournemouth striker Moore scored his first premier league goal on the opening day. 29-year -old Moore was a regular scorer in the Championship. Among the newly promoted teams, only Nottingham Forest failed to get a point as they lost to Newcastle United. Fulham drew with Liverpool and Bournemouth defeated Aston Villa. 


Tottenham, Chelsea, Leeds ....


Tottenham displayed a dominant performance against Southampton. The home side effectively killed off the game by going 3-1 in front on the hour mark, and proved that they needed neither Son or Kane to score.


Chelsea went across the stream with a shaky performance, thanks to a first half penalty, which Jorginho turned into a goal. Everton were threatening more, but somehow Chelsea survived. 


Leeds fought back from an early goal deficit to clinch three points against Wolves. Podence scored in the 6th minute, giving lead to Wolves, but Rodrigo equalised in the 24th minute, and the winning goal was an own goal by Ait Nouri. 



Manchester United


After ending the previous season in a disappointing way, they came to this with much expectations. Brighton stunned the Reds at home. German midfielder of Beighton Pascal Groß scored twice for them. Ten Hag and his players will now have to rouse themselves for the trip to Brentford next weekend before hosting Liverpool in their next home fixture. 