The monsoon flooding in Pakistan has been referred to as a “monsoon on steroids” and described as a “monster monsoon.” These names reflect the wide devastation it has caused.
This flooding has been fuelled by the hottest weather recorded during March and April this year. This heat accelerated glacier melting in Pakistan’s north, followed by unprecedented rainfall patterns in many parts of the country during July and August.
Human-induced climate change has caused these unusual weather events: a one in 100-year heat wave and rainfall over nine times the average rainfall in the southeastern Sindh province.
The loss of lives since mid-June 2022 currently stands at over 1,300. And it is estimated that the number of people affected by the floods is around 33 million.
a graph comparing the average rainfall with 2022 levels in various Pakistani provinces
In 2019, Pakistan’s greenhouse gas emissions stood at about 433 million tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalents per year — this is 0.9 per cent of the global emissions. While Pakistan contributes a small fraction of the global greenhouse emissions, it is disproportionately impacted by climate change.
The onus of helping Pakistan recover from this tragedy, therefore, rests on the international community.
Having studied the economic impacts of extreme floods in North America and the history of water management in the Indus basin (which lies between Pakistan, India, China and Afghanistan), I can safely state that the current estimate of US$10 billion in damages likely significantly underrepresents the comprehensive cost of this disaster.
A more in-depth analysis is often required to determine the long-term impacts on infrastructure, loss of revenue due to supply-chain disruptions, costs of disruption to manufacturing and loss of productivity as people are displaced.
Inadequate infrastructure
In 2010, Pakistan was also hit with extreme flooding, which resulted in the loss of 1,985 lives and over US$ 10 billion in damages. These recurring events raise questions about systemic and strategic responses to mitigate against future flood events.
Read more: https://theconversation.com/flooding-in-pakistan-shows-that-climate-adaptation-requires-international-support-and-regional-co-operation-189853