According to UGC Chairman Jagadesh Kumar, the Common University Entrance Test (CUET) expansion plans, which include a suggestion to integrate it with JEE and NEET, won't be impacted by the technical issues that were faced in the beginning stages of the important exam.

According to Ad Kumar, the difficulties encountered during the test's administration would be resolved quickly, and the exam will be held twice a year.

"The initial technological issues with CUET-UG are not failures, but rather learning. They will soon be resolved and won't stop scaling up or expanding plans for the important exam in any way "In an interview, he said PTI.

Kumar had earlier said that in future the engineering entrance exam JEE and medical entrance exam NEET will also be merged with CUET.

"As per the NEP, the plan is to have a common entrance exam to reduce the burden on students of appearing in multiple entrances. However, we won't hurry up to introduce it as we need to plan well. It is a massive exercise and our focus is on planning and taking forward from the lessons we have learnt while conducting CUET," he said.

"An expert committee will be set up by end of this month. It will study all important entrance exams being conducted in the country as well as abroad. If we have to introduce the exam next year, the preparation has to start now considering the massive exercise and the different disciplines involved.

"There also has to be a consensus among stakeholders and the two main issues we need to address is the syllabus as well as the difficulty level as each discipline has its own peculiarities," he said. 

The National Testing Agency (NTA) has had to cancel tests at numerous locations due to difficulties that have plagued the CUET-initial UG's edition since it started in July. Even though many students received cancellation information the night before the exam, several of them were turned away from testing centres.

Read the full article here: https://www.google.com/amp/s/www.hindustantimes.com/education/news/tech-glitches-in-cuet-not-a-setback-won-t-hurry-to-merge-with-jee-neet-ugc-101660647241622-amp.html