As the new academic year starts, universities and colleges are preparing for orientations to welcome international students.

Orientation to local culture and society offered by post-secondary education institutions is common, especially during the first couple of weeks of the new semester. In weeks and months to come, the international students will continue to adapt to their new environment and communities.

The ongoing COVID-19 pandemic brings another layer of complexity and uncertainty to international students’ university lives.

For many students, it means limited interactions due to public health restrictions. International students may have to self-isolate and reduce social contacts with their peers on a daily basis.

My research with colleagues has examined how a two-way approach that encourages social interactions between international students and local peers is more effective than developing short-term programs to orient international students to the academic environment, campus culture and society.

To better support international students beyond orientation week, universities can focus on developing year-round academic and extracurricular opportunities that encourage cultural exchanges between international students, their peers and the wider society.

Connecting students
Research has identified that creating physical or virtual social spaces to connect international students with their local peers and communities allows students to engage and learn.

Virtual spaces hosted on different platforms can host student-initiated committees and associations. Such associations help students to build social connections between international students and their local peers.

In these spaces, students build mutual understanding, acceptance and a sense of belonging. When university educators are also involved in these social spaces, this may inspire their creativity to innovate and adapt their current curriculum.

Read more: https://theconversation.com/how-universities-can-support-international-students-beyond-orientation-week-186678