By Rajeev Bhattacharyya
In a stinging indictment of the government’s failure to check the disaster that has already washed away lakhs of hectares of land over the past several decades, a Parliamentary panel has expressed “concern” over the continuing riverbank erosion in Assam. 
The Committee noted that erosion in Assam was a “big perennial problem” that has caused “significant economic loss besides displacement of the population”. It has made a case for erosion to be included in the admissible list of calamities for availing assistance under the National Disaster Response Fund (NDRF) and State Disaster Response Fund (SDRF). 
The report, which was submitted by the Standing Committee on Water Resources to Parliament, also examined the replies by the government on flood, erosion and cooperation with neighbouring countries on rivers. The Committee deliberated in detail on the situation in Assam and other flood-prone states of the country.
In Assam, more than 4.27 lakh hectares of land was already eroded by the river Brahmaputra and its tributaries since 1950, which is 7.40 per cent of the state’s total area. According to a government estimate, the annual average loss of land is nearly 8000 hectares. Over the years, as many as 2500 villages have been wiped out, impacting around 4 lakh people across the state, many of whom continue to live on the embankments. Consequently, the width of the Brahmaputra river has increased up to 15 kilometres at some places due to erosion which has gradually increased over the years. A survey carried out between 1912-28 revealed that the area covered by the river was 3870 sq km which expanded to 6080 sq km in 2006.
The Brahmaputra river is characterised by high mean annual water discharge, high sediment yield and seasonal variability. It is a braided channel with the presence of numerous mid-channel bars and islands called ‘Chars’, with most of them being temporary in nature that gets submerged during the monsoon. The estimated annual sediment yield of the river is 735 million metric tons of suspended sediment loads which are among the highest for all rivers in the world. 
Read the full story here:- https://theprobe.in/mitigating-riverbank-erosion-a-major-challenge-for-assam/