Barcelona impacted the world forever with the 91,553 crowd that watched them seal a UEFA Women's Champions League semi-final spot against Real Madrid last month and on Friday at 18:45 CET the holders start off the last four with one more sold-out Camp Nou event against Wolfsburg.

Wolfsburg has won each of the three past gatherings with Barcelona, 3-0 and 2-0 in the 2013/14 quarter-finals and 1-0 in one of the las-four tie in 2020 in San Sebastián.

Barcelona, outsiders two seasons back against the two times support, pushed Wolfsburg as far as possible yet much has changed in the 16 months since.

The Blaugrana, preeminent since the time guaranteeing their most memorable European title last May, have won every one of the eight matches in their prize guard by no less than two objectives and to be sure now brag the player that got Wolfsburg's 2020 semi-final victor against them, Fridolina Rolfö, as well as one more previous #1 at the German side, Caroline Graham Hansen. Triumph would make it 40 successes out of 40 for Barcelona in serious games this season, and broaden their existing streak including last season to 45.

Nonetheless, Wolfsburg - who had a particularly blended 2021, not least because of an extensive physical issue list - are now in vintage form, particularly with Ewa Pajor fit once more and back in the goals. They have demonstrated that with two successes against Bayern München in their last two fixtures, 6-0 on 3 April to go four points clear in the Bundesliga with three games left, and 3-1 away on Sunday to arrive at an 8th German cup finals.

Possible starting line-ups

Barcelona: Paños; Marta Torrejón, Paredes, Mapi León, Rolfö; Bonmatí, Guijarro, Alexia; Graham Hansen, Hermoso, Pina

Wolfsburg: Schult; Wilms, Hendrich, Janssen, Rauch; Popp, Lattwein; Huth, Roord, Jónsdóttir; Wassmuth

From the camps:

Jonatan Giráldez, Barcelona coach: "Wolfsburg are a team that we have never beaten and that affects the mentality but we have to focus on the game to have a chance".

Tommy Stroot, Wolfsburg coach: "I don't find it difficult to maintain normalcy here. It's going to be a typical Champions League night".