By Archit Mehta & Kalim Ahmed

Droupadi Murmu took the oath to become the 15th President of India on July 25. Ever since it was announced that Murmu won the presidential election by an overwhelming margin, a quote attributed to the social reformer Dr Bhimrao Ramji Ambedkar is being shared on social media. The quote in Hindi reads, “The day a tribal woman becomes the President of India (the highest office), reservation should be abolished in the country”.

[Translated from: जिस दिन कोई आदिवासी महिला भारत के सर्वोच्च पद “राष्ट्रपति” तक पहुंच जाएगी देश में आरक्षण खत्म कर देना चाहिए।]

This quote, along with Dr Ambedkar’s image, has been widely shared on social media. On July 23, a page called We Are Against Reservation shared this quote on Facebook. Another anti-reservation page आरक्षण एक अभिषाप also posted this image.

( Link https://www.facebook.com/602196229937319/posts/pfbid02Q61bHnxCQhnLz61cMnHz9pedoKPGqQrzpQqi3gRj4FmzP2ENmJDw3a7D4urSPi13l/)

Several other Facebook accounts have shared and amplified this claim.

Mirroring Facebook’s trend, various Twitter accounts have also attributed this quote to Dr Ambedkar.

Alt News has received multiple requests on our WhatsApp helpline (76000 11160) to verify authenticity of this claim.

Curiously enough, The Sentinel, a Guwahati-based English daily newspaper, also published an article under the “Letters to THE EDITOR” column where a reader opined on reservation based on the alleged quote by Dr Ambedkar. 

(Archived link https://web.archive.org/web/20220725071448/https://www.sentinelassam.com/editorial/abolishing-reservation-policy-603374)

Fact-check
Alt News performed a search in Hindi and English using relevant keywords. However, this did not yield any credible source of information that attributes this claim to Dr Ambedkar. This was a red flag.

We then looked at the website of the Ministry of External Affairs where all the published writings and speeches of Dr Babasaheb Ambedkar are available in separate volumes. To have an understanding of these works, we reached out to experts who were involved in the research and compilation process of this project.

Alt News spoke with Hari Narke, editor of Writings & Speeches of Dr Babasaheb Ambedkar from volumes 17 to 22. He was a professor and the head of Mahatma Phule Chair in Savitribai Phule Pune University, Pune till 2016.

Read the full story here:- https://www.altnews.in/no-dr-ambedkar-did-not-say-reservation-should-be-abolished-the-day-a-tribal-woman-becom