International banks are owed more than $121 billion by Russian entities, according to the Bank for International Settlements, which suspended Russia's membership on Thursday. European banks have over $84 billion total claims, with France, Italy and Austria the most exposed, and US banks owed $14.7 billion.

Goldman Sachs (GS) earlier disclosed that it had credit exposure to Russia of $650 million in December 2021. JPMorgan Chase (JPM) said its current activities in Russia are "limited."

Other banks with more to lose could soon follow Goldman Sachs and JPMorgan Chase out of Russia. Kremlin spokesperson Dmitry Peskov said Thursday that the economic situation in Russia is "absolutely unprecedented" and blamed the West for an "economic war."

Putin on Thursday gave his backing to plans to seize assets left behind by Western companies that have suspended or abandoned their operations in Russia.

Fitch Ratings warned previously that "large western European banks' asset quality will be pressured by the fallout from Russia's invasion of Ukraine," and that their operations also face increased risk as they race to comply with international sanctions.

French bank Societe Generale (SCGLF) said last week it is "rigorously complying with all applicable laws and regulations and is diligently implementing the measures necessary to strictly enforce international sanctions as soon as they are made public."

The bank said it had almost $21 billion in exposure to Russia at the end of last year.

Societe Generale "has more than enough buffer to absorb the consequences of a potential extreme scenario, in which the group would be stripped of property rights to its banking assets in Russia," it said.

France's BNP Paribas (BNPQF) said on Wednesday that its exposure to both Russia and Ukraine totals €3 billion ($3.3 billion).

Italy's UniCredit (UNCFF), which has been operating in Russia since 1989, said last week that its Russian arm was "very liquid and self-funded," and that the franchise accounts for just 3% of the bank's revenue. On Tuesday, it said that its exposure to Russia totals roughly €7.4 billion ($8.1 billion).

Credit Suisse (CS) said Thursday that it has exposure to Russia of 1 billion Swiss francs ($1.1 billion).