Fundamentals of Vedic Astrology continues.....

Except for the Sun and Moon, planets sometime change their motion in the Zodiac periodically and tend to move backwards. This is marked by the symbol(R) next to the retrograde planet. After sometime they become direct again. Special care needs to be taken when assessment of Gemstone of a retrograde planet as sometimes due to retrogression these planets give surprising results. From sudden windfalls to abject downfall. Rahu and Ketu are always in a state of retrogression. 

From the point of view of gemstone recommendation, the most important planetary period is the Vimshottari Dasha. As per this the most optimum life span for a human is 120 years. These 120 years are further divided in 9 unequal time spans representing a time span for each planet. 

The planetary lord of each dasha is determined by the 27 different nakshatras ruled by each planet. Even though there are other dasha systems in Vedic Astrology the Vimshottari dasha is the most important. 

This period should be analysed first along with a thorough study of the birth chart for gemstone recommendation. The planet whose dasha/period is operating should be given precedence in analysis above all other factors. 

The 27 nakshatras/lunar constellations are combined into triads and each group is ruled by a particular planet. The Moon at the time of birth will be transiting through one of these stellar constellations. That is the birth star and Vimshottari Dasha will start from the Lord of that birth star. Please refer to 
table.

The Vimshottari dasha periods shall always be in the order given above. For example if the Moon was in the nakshatra of Punarvasu at the time of the birth the starting dasha will be that of Jupiter followed by Saturn, Mercury and so on. Similarly if the Moon was in the nakshatra of Bharani at the time of birth the starting Vimshottari dasha shall be of Venus followed by the Sun, Moon and so on. 

Fundamentals of Vedic Astrology concluded.......

Next up :- Do Gemstones Work—No They 
Don’t for 90% of the People