During a 13-month stint in Iraq that began in 2006, Heath Robinson served as a medic with the Ohio National Guard. Like thousands of others soldiers stationed there, he was routinely exposed to toxic smoke emanating from what are known as burn pits.

Located near military bases, some of these pits were nearly as large as three city blocks and were used by the military to incinerate chemical weapons, computer hardware, human remains, medical waste, asbestos, pesticides, paint cans, fuels, rubber and other materials.

A decade after his deployment, Robinson was diagnosed with a rare form of lung cancer. He was unable to prove that his cancer was caused by the exposure to the poisonous fumes from the burn pits, and the Veterans Administration denied him health care benefits associated with his disease.

In May 2020, Robinson died from his illness, leaving behind a widow and an 8-year-old daughter. He was 39 years old.

Robinson was not the only serviceman denied benefits for burn pit exposure-related diseases by the Veterans Administration. Between 2007 and 2020, nearly 80% of those claims were denied. Of the 12,582 claims for these benefits during that time period, only 2,828 were approved, according to the Veterans Administration.

The denial of services is expected to come to an abrupt halt now that President Joe Biden on Aug. 10, 2022, signed into law legislation that will require the Veterans Administration to provide health services to soldiers suffering from more than 20 diseases associated with burn pits, including several forms of cancer and lung disease.

Officially called “The Sergeant First Class Heath Robinson Honoring our Promise to Address Comprehensive Toxics Act of 2022,” the law is known as the PACT Act. It also requires the Veterans Administration to expand health care to veterans exposed to toxic chemicals during service in Vietnam, the Gulf War and global war on terrorism.

Most important, the PACT Act removes the burden of proof and gives veterans the benefit of doubt at a time of desperate need.

Read more: https://theconversation.com/pact-act-providing-health-care-to-burn-pit-victims-caps-decades-of-denied-benefits-for-veterans-188329