ROY KEANE

The rugged and relentless Irish midfielder guided Manchester United to seven Premier League wins and the 1999 Champions League victory during a trophy-laden decade. Before joining Manchester United, Keane had three great seasons with Nottingham Forest, making 480 appearances for the Red Devils.


FRANK LAMPARD

Lampard arrived to Chelsea in 2001 after a five-year stint as a regular for West Ham United. He went on to have a legendary career with the Blues. He made 648 appearances in 13 seasons at Stamford Bridge, helping Chelsea win three Premier League titles, four FA Cup titles, and a Champions League title. In midfield, he was a goal-scoring machine, scoring a Chelsea-record 211 goals.


PAUL SCHOLES

There were more flashy midfielders, including those who scored more goals and assisted more times, but Scholes' impact to Manchester United's domination during his 19 years at Old Trafford made him a difficult player to leave out of this All-Time XI. Scholes scored 155 goals in 718 appearances for Manchester United, his lone club, helping the team win 11 Premier League titles and two Champions League titles.


RYAN GIGGS

The Welsh international spent his whole career with Manchester United, which was his sole club. He concluded his career as a scintillating left winger, making a club record 963 games in all competitions and scored 168 goals. During his nearly quarter-century at Old Trafford, he helped the Red Devils win 13 Premier League crowns and two Champions League titles.


THIERRY HENRY

Despite having the shortest Premier League tenure of any of the players on this All-Time XI, Henry's eight years at Arsenal were filled with enchantment that made him impossible to leave out. The French striker left Arsenal as the club's all-time leading scorer with 228 goals in all competitions, helping the Gunners win two Premier League crowns, two FA Cup triumphs, and reach the Champions League final.

SERGIO AGUERO
During Manchester City's decade of dominance, Aguero has been a pivotal role. Aguero has 254 goals in all competitions for City, helping them win four Premier League crowns and an FA CupHe's already racked up enough trophies to earn a spot on the All-Time XI.