The Shawshank Redemption is IMDb's top film of all time. Is it just because it is a work of art?

Tim Robbins plays Andy Dufresne, a banker who learns his wife is having an affair and is wrongfully imprisoned for killing both her and the secret lover in the 1994 film The Shawshank Redemption, which was based on a short story by Stephen King at a time when moviemakers were clamouring to adapt the author's work. While serving his sentence at Shawshank, Andy learns the ins and outs of prison life and makes friends with Red (Morgan Freeman), but beyond his composed exterior is a burning desire to get out.

Even though The Shawshank Redemption is now regarded as one of the greatest movies ever made, success wasn't an easy thing for the Frank Darabont production. Even though the recent reviews weren't as flattering as the old ones, the movie did well at the box office. The Shawshank Redemption suffered significantly and bombed horribly. Although Andy's quest for independence was acknowledged in that year's Academy Award nominations, he was not successful in winning any gold. The Shawshank Redemption gradually grew in popularity through TV airplay and video rentals, and its reputation started to rise. Eventually, the movie was acknowledged as a genuine classic. Right now, The Shawshank Redemption is dominating IMDb's list of the top 250 movies.

Why did The Shawshank Redemption maintain such fervent broad appeal in a field when opinion is always changing? 
The Shawshank Redemption is, above all else, a brilliant work of art on every level. In addition to Freeman and Robbins' performances, which are among the best ever, Shawshank also features a cast of beautifully realised supporting players that both surprise and captivate in equal measure. The Shawshank Redemption, directed by Frank Darabont and photographed by the renowned Roger Deakins, features stunning vistas despite being mostly set in a less-than-stellar prison setting. The character-driven narrative has a built-in energy that allows viewers to naturally follow Andy and Red's story during the upbeat scenes but grips them with tension during the tough, darker scenes.