We can either do the action NOW or leave the planet and ourselves to die. It's, quite literally, a do or die situation. Especially as Americans, it's just gross misuse of power and privilege while people in the Global South are dying 'cause climate change. America's obsession with meat and dairy is killing the people of the global south.

Ocean dead zones, deforestation, the draining and poisoning of fresh water, emissions, habitat loss, wildlife extinction, deadly pandemics, antibiotic resistance, unimaginable violence and dominion. It’s not going to end well if we don’t stop. We HAVE TO stop.

While veganism is not the only way to reverse climate change but it's a big – and when I say big, I mean huge – step towards the saving of the planet.

Research suggests that, on average, it takes about 1800 gallons of water to produce one pound of beef, which translates to around 450 gallons for a quarter-pound hamburger. Read that again. We're in a developed country where anything is literally a walk to the store away, while people in Libya or Yemen are dying because they don't have drinking water.

According to another study, on an average, it takes more than 2,400 gallons of water to produce just 1 pound of meat. Only 25 gallons of water are required to grow 1 pound of wheat.

If everyone shifted to a plant-based diet we would reduce global land use for agriculture by 75%. Half of the world’s ice- and desert-free land is used for agriculture. Most of this is for raising livestock – the land requirements of meat and dairy production are equivalent to an area the size of the Americas, spanning all the way from Alaska to Tierra del Fuego.

The land use of livestock is so large because it takes around 100 times as much land to produce a kilocalorie of beef or lamb versus plant-based alternatives. This is shown in the chart.1 The same is also true for protein – it takes almost 100 times as much land to produce a gram of protein from beef or lamb, versus peas or tofu.

We need to make a choice.