Today, like I usually do, I was travelling to college when I noticed a poster for "International Day of the Girl Child" in a metro station. Curious, I took a moment to learn more and Googled the topic, which led me to learn that today was in fact International Day of the Girl Child. 
I get to know that..... Every year, the International Day of Girl Child is celebrated on October 11 with the aim of empowering girls and amplifying their collective voice across the globe. The United Nations Children’s Fund (UNICEF) organises events to promote the power and potential of girls. It also highlights the dire need for equal opportunities and level playing fields for girls, so that they can perform just as well — if not better — than the boys.
Theme
The theme chosen by the UNICEF of the International Day of Girl Child this year is ‘Our Time Is Now — Our Rights, Our Future.’ The year 2022 also marks the 10th anniversary of the International Day of the Girl. It’s a hopeful sign that over the past 10 years, things have improved somewhat for girls as more attention is being paid to issues that matter to them.
In these last 10 years, there has been increased attention on issues that matter to girls amongst governments, policymakers and the general public, and more opportunities for girls to have their voices heard on the global stage. Yet, investments in girls’ rights remain limited and girls continue to confront a myriad of challenges to fulfilling their potential; made worse by concurrent crises of climate change, COVID-19 and humanitarian conflict. Girls around the world continue to face unprecedented challenges to their education, their physical and mental wellness, and the protections needed for a life without violence. COVID-19 has worsened existing burdens on girls around the world and worn away important gains made over the last decade.
Girls are ready for a decade of acceleration forward. It is time for us all to stand accountable – with and for girls – and to invest in a future that believes in their agency, leadership and potential. 👑🌟
Sources - Wikipedia