The speciality of Kashi in the words of revered Hindu saint and poet, Goswami Tulsidas as mentioned in the Kishkindha Kaand of Ramacharitmanas follow as:

"मुक्ति जन्म महि जानि ग्यान खान अघ हानि कर।
जहँ बस संभु भवानि सो कासी सेइअ कस न ॥"

Meaning: This is related to the realisation of absolute, this is the birth ground of it all. The place which ceases the cycle of birth and salvation. It's the ground which banishes all evil and malice and it's an endless source of knowledge and wisdom, moreover, this is where Lord Shiva and Goddess Parvati dwell, making these four, intangible concepts.

To perceive these intangible things, one needs the "Third eye"— the eye of the soul.

Banaras is perhaps one of its kinds of places in the world.

The effect of its morning, be it physical, psychological, or spiritual, can be felt on all three levels of consciousness. It seems as if, with each passing breath, divine spiritual energy is entering one's body and being. Brimming with this energy, the pilgrims climb down the ancient steps, the ascetic wanders the Ghats, the tourists gather on the banks, traditions adorn the morning time, the morning 'Azaan' echoes from a distant mosque and a great cremation ghat ablaze since centuries.

All this is enough to lose oneself, and forget everything to discover their true self.

The people of Banaras are ever-willing to drink this elixir and offer their act and craft in reverence. Some decorate themselves and others decorate their abode. Some show off their strength, some practice meditation techniques, some awaken the environment with their melodious tunes while others sing with the river.

Wherever the sight falls, Banaras seems to be drenched in a mood of its own. Religions spread all across India, and all the sects, beliefs and faiths are totally reflected in the city. This is the reason for the glory of Banaras. This is the reason for the vast expanse of Subah-e-Banaras.

There's a fearless stream running alive in the veins of the city to date. Subah-e-Banaras whispers the message to the world, that there is no future of a present without a past.