Muslim Gujjars are a scheduled tribe, legally and constitutionally protected from eviction from their traditional forest land. Police are also required to file criminal cases against anyone who abuses or attacks such tribals. But in Himachal—a formerly calm Himalayan state that is 95% Hindu—the Bharatiya Janata Party government has, on the urging of Hindu fundamentalists, who burnt Gujjar crops and fodder sheds, instead served eviction notices on Muslims and taken no action against Hindu attackers.

On 14 December, 2021, farmer Naved Ali, 54, was doing household chores when men from the electricity department of the Himachal Pradesh government came to his two-room concrete home on the edge of a pasture in the mountains and wrenched out the electricity meter.

The men said they had been sent by the local administration, which told their department that Ali, like 42 other families from a local Muslim tribe of shepherds and farmers called the Gujjars, were illegally occupying the land and had been served eviction notices.

Ali said he showed the men the title to his land, issued 21 years ago in 2001 by the patwari (a government official who is the repository of village land records); in other words, by the same government that issued his land deed. 

“But they removed the meter and said go to the revenue department,” said Ali. “The revenue department said my land falls under uncultiveable wasteland and said I could not stay there since it belonged to the government.” 

For two days, Ali lived without electricity. Light came from his inverter, but he could not run the motor that ran a machine that turned dried crops into fodder. The electricity was restored five days later, after a local court stayed the eviction orders.  

Vishal Sharma, an electricity department engineer at Indora, said their job was limited to “uprooting” electricity meters in premises the revenue department deemed “illegal”. 

“We do not have the authority to look at a land deed,” said Sharma. “He (Ali) might have a proper land deed, but he needs to prove it to the revenue department.”


Read more- https://article-14.com/post/abetted-by-state-govt-hindu-group-in-himachal-pradesh-burns-crops-demands-eviction-of-muslim-tribe-620c68c3c8191