All India Congress Committee (AICC) secretary and former minister of Himachal Pradesh Sudhir Sharma on Wednesday categorically stated that there is a massive undercurrent in favour of the Congress all over Punjab and the party is sure to win the state elections with a thumping majority.
Sharma, who is also the AICC Observer for Fatehgarh Sahib, Bassi Pathana and Almoh assembly constituencies, said in these constituencies the Congress is hopeful for a brighter prospects and their prosperity, as visualised by Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi and under leadership of Punjab Pradesh Congress Committee chief Navjot Singh Sidhu.
“The party is drawing unflinching support across all sections of the society, as it stood solidly behind the farmers in their quest for justice—to make the BJP Government to take back the draconian black laws, which were designed in such way that would have made farmers as labourers in their own field,” said Sharma.
He said that Channi, who hails from an ordinary social background, is the man of the soil and is committed to provide jobs to nearly 1 lakh youth every year, if the Congress returns to power. The youth have no reason to disbelieve it, as the Congress party believed in matching its words with works. 
“The jobs will be created by the own resources of the Punjab government, as the Narendra Modi-led government is out to scrap the jobs in all government sectors. Public sectors, which used to create jobs for the youths are being sold every now and then,” said the former Himachal minister. 
Sharma said Sidhu has categorically avowed to demolish the mafia raj, being patronized by Alkali leaders and other opposition leaders including AAP and the BJP. “People's enthusiasm tells that a new revolution is coming in Punjab. Now the rule of farmers, small traders and the poor is coming. I have come as a hope. Badal was CM for 5 times but today villages are in bad condition, there is no development. The farmers are in bad condition. There is no drinking water in the numerous villages,” he added.
The people of Punjab are looking at a bright future under Channi, Sharma said.