There are certain instances in the film which happen in subtle visual ways, too. Like the scene when Maggie wipes sauce off her tip money. To get money, she has to reject food. When we meet Maggie's mother, we start to understand why Maggie sees poverty and obesity as a disability. Her mother is a welfare cheat.We never learned the reason why Maggie's mom is on welfare. Million Dollar Baby has probably one of the most surprising plot twists in film history. You think you're watching a female version of Rocky, with the disgruntled trainer, the idealistic fighter, until Maggie is sucker punched and ends up a quadriplegic. This plot works in the story is because it fits thematically even while breaking the well-known story structure of a sports movie. You see, Maggie's quest from the very beginning has been the struggle against disability. So, fighting an actual physical disability is a natural extension of her story. Her story is about becoming rich, independent and physically fit and all of those goals are connected. Her mother is the antithesis of this as she is poor, obese, and relies on others. That's why Maggie's official break from her mother comes when her mom tries to mooch off of Maggie's fortune and steal her money. When Maggie is put into a position in which you must now rely on other people, it is only natural for her character to say "No" and she begs for assisted suicide from Frankie. Again, this is not to endorse or criticize the character's decision but to show how the film foreshadows it. The logic of the film, that is the treatment of Maggie at the gym, the visual representation of wealth and food and the characterization of Maggie's mother, these ideas are connected in a way that informs the story. They create a metaphorical structure that the film operates within and the result is a film that is able to surprise the audience by having a shocking plot twist while still paying off on the thematic promises of the film.
Presented By: Rachit Bansal
(Refer to Part 1 to read full movie review)

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------