First major title for England women. First final loss for Germany. Sarina Wiegman reclaims the trophy. 


In a dramatic final at Wembley, England women overcame a gritty German obstacle to clinch the title. Substitutes Ella Toone (62') and Chloe Kelly(110') scored for England and Magull (79') equalised for Germany before Kelly's winner. 


This is the first major trophy for England football after 1966 world cup win. A record 87190+ spectators gathered to support their teams. 


First goal came from a superb long through pass by Walsh, which Toone finished with a mesmerizing chip shot over the keeper. England fans went to the sky with joy, and they thought they almost won it. But, Magull broke their heart. Hendrich, who had an excellent final, retrieved a ball running back, and brought it back into attack through the right wing. That area has been a strong-hold of German attack, giving them the equaliser, when Tabea Waßmuth's cross was clinically turned into goal by Magull using her inside foot. Germany took the steering of the match, which England held onto with hard work.


Match went onto extra time, and first half also remained under German control, but they couldn't score. Manchester City player Kelly, who came back into football after a long injury gap, won a corner by kicking the ball into the legs of a German defender. Resulting corner was tapped into the goal by herself. 


Sarina had taught the players all pages of the football book, who kept the ball at the corner and run down the final 10 minutes. She had also brought in veterans Jill Scott and Nikita Parris. 35 years old Jill Scott is the only player from 2009 Euro final defeat, who enjoyed a sweet revenge moment by winning it. 


England's Beth Mead and Germany's Alex Popp shared the top scorer award with 6 goals each. Dangerous Popp's absence in the final helped England. Germany's Lena Oberdorf was awarded best young player. Beth mead got the best player of the tournament award too. Prize money for the tournament was €660,000 for champions and €420,000 for runners up. 

England will meet Brazil in the first women's Finalissima.