The Taliban Interior Ministry announced the end of the attack on the Hindu temple in Kabul Parwan district of Kabul, saying all the attackers were killed.

A ministry spokesman said two people, including a Taliban and a Hindu, were killed and seven others were injured in the clashes.

The Taliban Interior Ministry did not provide details about the number of attackers, saying that a group of unidentified gunmen attacked a Hindu shrine in Karte Parwan, Kabul, on the morning of Saturday, June 19th.

The Taliban Interior Ministry said the attackers threw a hand grenade at the guards before entering the shrine.

The ministry said the attackers tried to blow up a car full of explosives among the people, but the car exploded before reaching its target, causing no casualties.

"Afghanistan is a graveyard for religious minorities," said Anarkali Henryar, a woman politician from Afghanistan's Hindu and Sikh communities and a former member of parliament.

"The war crimes against humanity and the brutal attack are the same words and phrases repeated over and over again over the next twenty years. Finally, which terrorist groups are the perpetrators of these attacks, taking victims from the strangest, poorest and most disinterested people?" Ms. Henryar wrote on her Twitter page.

In recent years, Hindu and Sikh temples in Afghanistan have been repeatedly attacked.

As attacks on Afghanistan's religious minority continued, many Afghan Hindus and Sikhs sought refuge in India.

After the Taliban took control of Afghanistan, Afghanistan's Hindu and Sikh religious minorities reported that Taliban had attacked their shrine.
Reacting to what happened today, the Indian Foreign Minister said that the attack on the Sikh shrine in Karte Parwan, Kabul, should be strongly condemned by all.

 The head of the Sikh worship committee in Delhi believes that the Gurdwara temple in Kabul has been attacked by terrorists.

He called for universal support for these religious minorities as attacks on Sikhs and Hindus spread in Kabul.