With the rising mistrust in our public educational institutions, the issue arises as to whether we have reached a moment where we should reassess the widespread adoption of trade schools. Trade schools provide children with the tools needed to achieve a success and prepare them for future careers, as opposed to leaving students unsure of what they will do in the future, which might cause them to stagnate and accomplish little.

Unfortunately, the popular perception amongst employers is that people consider college as a prerequisite for success in today's world. Worse yet, there are others who look down on those without a college degree and treat them as though they are of inferior worth. Many individuals have missed out on tremendous opportunities for which they would have been qualified if they had not been stigmatized for their lack of a college degree.
 
Trade schools offer students with the opportunity to achieve success, contribute to the economy, and deliver a valuable product or service to society without a college degree and without incurring tens of thousands of dollars in debt. If more students were encouraged to acquire trades instead of pursuing uncertain educational paths, we may see more driven individuals who earned stable incomes and lead productive lives, as opposed to those who wind up on the streets or in professions they loathe.

One dilemma concerning student debt is whether student debt forgiveness is a good idea.  As college tuition continues to rise, we must determine whether it is preferable to leave individuals in debt or to help them get out of it in addition to how we can go about effecting change.
 
Despite complaints and demands by administrators, professors, and federal legislators to eliminate college debt, the irony is that these same people continue to do nothing to prevent the exponential rise in college tuition. Sadly, much of this money is used to fund new services and facilities that are used by only a minority of students. It would be one thing if college tuition — at least at private institutions – matched inflation, but this is seldom the case.