Dawn! Just like the title of the movie! Oh baby, the twists just keep on coming. One of the central tenets of Dawn of the Planet of the Apes is that its characters have names. And one of those names is Caesar. This is a clever nod to the fact that Caesar is the protagonist of the film. If you really wanted to reach, you might also say the name is a reference to William Shakespeare’s Julius Caesar, another character who is metaphorically stabbed in the back and literally falls out of a tree. The film also explores more nuanced issues, namely technology’s destructive effect on humanity. The first act of “Dawn of” is characterized by an irony: The audience recognizes more humanity in the apes than they do in the humans. For the first several minutes of the film, we see no people - only apes, who live inharmony with each other and their natural surroundings. They display idealistic qualities traditionally associated with humanity, such as love and compassion and full frontal nudity, causing the audience to become emotionally invested in them. When the humans, with their machines and restrictive clothing, encounter the apes for the first time, the perverted nature of modern man is shown in stork contrast. The humans have become so dependent on technology that their very humanity will disintegrate if they can’t turn on their nightlights. The advancements that were supposed to improve the human way of life have left it weak and vulnerable. Moreover, it was mankind’s obsession with scientific progress that led to the creation of the simian flu in the first place, and knowing humans, they’ll be the first to take credit. The film suggests that even the purest society can be corrupted by the power and convenience afforded by sweet tech. The apes begin the film as model citizens, but quickly abandon the qualities that made their community stable as soon as they gain access to advanced weaponry. Maybe the film is suggesting that knowledge can corrupt just as easily as it can enlighten. And that the apes are headed down the same road already paved by humans.