By Shivaji Dasgupta 
Truthfully, the transition in the monarchy is an enterprising opportunity for many Indian brands to capitalise on the emotional currency. But for the Tatas, considering that their entire foundation occurred in British India, a sincere acknowledgement would surely be plain good manners.
Nusserwanji Tata laid the seeds of the business in 1850, unleashing a lucrative import-export trade with China and Japan, opium being part of the star cast. The import of cotton to Liverpool during the US Civil War ( around 1862) proved to be immensely profitable and so was being a provisions supplier to the British Army during the invasion of Abyssinia ( present-day Ethiopia) in 1867. Buoyed by encouraging revenues, JN Tata set up a global trading empire and started envisioning the steel plant in Jamshedpur, the hotel in Bombay and allied pioneering initiatives, with JRD’s Tata Airlines ( Air India) getting a licence in 1932.
One thing the group managed thoughtfully was the equilibrium between the imperialists and the Swadeshi movement, with the latter actually raising funds for the construction of the steel plant, encouraged by the British due to economic realities.
 In the 1920s, when unionism had crept in, the Indian National Congress ensured worker stability and continually supported this symbol of self-reliance. While the Tatas supplied steel at a loss to the British cause in the First World War, a generosity which led to tariff protection all the way till 1946, and Sir Homi Mody (Russi Mody’s father) actually served on the Viceroy’s Executive Council in the early 1940s.
Now, the above is all documented and happy history for the most part, as the group has turned out to be a sustainable agent of growth for independent India, an inspiration to date. When the Queen passed, PM Modi paid a truly touching tribute and this in tandem with President Murmu’s presence at the funeral proves the changing dynamics of geopolitics. 
Read more: 
https://www.newsdrum.in/analysis/queen-elizabeth-ii-why-did-the-tatas-not-celebrate-the-queen-91853.html
