Man Utd, under the starry lights of Old Trafford, hosted their first match of the 22/23 season with new manager Erik Ten Hag at the helm against Brighton and Hove Albion. The Seagulls defeated United in the earlier season 4-0, so United was looking to extract revenge. But what we saw was a limpless display by United, with a consolation own goal by the Brentford side as Brighton came out winners by 2-1 margin. 


It forced United’s Glazers ownership to scramble to make transfers happen, with Frenkie De Jong not looking anywhere close to joining United, as the Red Devils can’t provide Champions League football. Out of countless midfielders, the two names which came out in the fore were Adrien Rabiot of Juventus and Sergej Milinkovic Savic. 


Milinkovic-Savic’s name should be familiar with United, because we were linked with him 5-6 years back when he was a hot property in the market, but nothing came out of it. The name seems to have come up once again, due to the reluctance of a certain Barca player. United need to make signings to compete for the top honors. 

But before we jump on to the Serbian, let’s have a look at the Juventus man.


Adrien Rabiot


The erratic, ill-disciplined Frenchman is being linked with United. Now what made United go, and search for the Frenchman? 


Erik Ten Hag is a sucker for discipline, as he has already implemented in the pre-season by dropping a first team player for coming late to a meeting. Rabiot already met United in UCL round of 16 while playing for Paris Saint Germain, which they dramatically lost. He was fined for partying that evening. So what makes you think an ill-disciplined player will gel in a system where discipline is must?


Season Heatmap


Looking at his seasonal heatmap,we can see that he was deployed mostly in the deep-lying midfield position, mostly on the left side of the pitch. 

Passing


The strong, tall Frenchman is very versatile and can play anywhere in the midfield.His intelligence helps him as he is able to know where the next play will happen.