By NewsDrum Desk 
New Delhi: Five Congress MPs have written to AICC central election authority chief Madhusudan Mistry expressing concern about the "transparency and fairness" of the party chief's election and sought that the list of PCC delegates that make up the electoral college be provided to all electors and potential candidates.
In a joint letter to Mistry dated September 6, Congress's Lok Sabha members Shashi Tharoor, Manish Tewari, Karti Chidambaram, Pradyut Bordoloi and Abdul Khaleque said this list must be made available in order to verify who is entitled to nominate a candidate and who is entitled to vote.
"In case the CEA (Central Election Authority) has any concerns with respect to releasing the electoral rolls publicly, it must put in place a mechanism to securely share this information with all electors and potential candidates," the letter said.
Electors and candidates cannot be expected to go to all 28 Pradesh Congress Committees (PCCs) and nine union territorial units across the country to verify the electoral rolls, the MPs said in their communication to Mistry.
They said that as Congress MPs, they are concerned about the transparency and fairness of the election process for the president of the party.
"It is unfortunate that an erroneous interpretation is being given to our demand of releasing electoral rolls. We are not suggesting that any internal document of the party should be released in a manner that may give an opportunity to those who wish us ill to misuse the information contained therein," the MPs said.
They said that they are of the firm opinion that before the commencement of the nomination process, the party's CEA must provide a list of PCC delegates that make up the electoral college.
The MPs said that providing the list will remove any unwarranted arbitrariness from the election process.
"As long as this demand is met, our concern about transparency - a sine qua non in any free and fair election - will be met," the letter said.
Read more: https://www.newsdrum.in/national/five-cong-mps-write-to-mistry-express-concern-over-transparency-fairness-of-party-chief-polls-87648.html