2. Christopher Nkunku

Christopher Nkunku of RB Leipzig is another option. Nkunku is a different alternative than
Nunez; rather than making his living as an out-and-out number nine, the Frenchman plays more
of a false nine, evoking comparisons to Firmino's role for the Reds over the previous several
seasons.

Last season, Nkunku scored 33 goals and assisted on 34 occasions in the Bundesliga, helping
his team to a Champions League berth.

In the Champions League, he scored nine goals in
seven games, including a hat-trick against Manchester City and a goal and an assist in Leipzig's
2-2 tie with Paris Saint-Germain.

Nkunku, like Nunez, is noted for his intense style of play and agility, which have been defining
characteristics of a Reds player under Klopp's tenure. Again, the German team is anticipated to
want a sum of approximately £80 million for the attacker.

The brilliant attacker is only 24 years old, and considering that Klopp recently signed a new
contract that will keep him at LFC until 2026, Nkunku might be another 'project Firmino' for the
German.

3. Ousmane Dembele

Barcelona's Ousmane Dembele, who is out of contract in the summer, is another option.

Dembele differs from Nunez and Nkunku in that his ability to play through the center has yet to
be shown. With Diogo Jota more than capable of filling that role, Klopp may choose a winger
who can play on both sides of the field, such as Mane.

Since joining Barcelona for a staggering £95 million from Borussia Dortmund in 2017, the young
Frenchman has only scored 19 times for the Catalan club in the past five La Liga seasons. In
reality, in 21 league games last season, he only managed one goal.

Despite his lack of goals, Dembele generated more goals in the Spanish league last season
than anybody else. With 13 assists, he is now in first place, ahead of Ballon d'Or favorites Karim
Benzema and Vinicius Jr.

The fact that Dembele's current contract at Barcelona is slated to expire in June means he
would be available on a free transfer and was a crucial element in Klopp's decision.