The Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) of the United States announced on Monday the restoration of the rules to regulate toxic mercury pollution reversing a rollback by the Trump administration. The proposal will bring back Mercury Air Toxics Standards (MAT) rules of 2012, first implemented by the Obama administrations.

The rules mandate power plants to cut down pollutants, such as mercury and acid gases, which will improve public health, according to the Biden administration.  

Mercury is a proven neurotoxin with severe damages to health, including its effect on brain development in children. EPA administrator Michael S. Regan said in a statement that “sound science makes it clear” that emission of mercury and toxins in the air must be limited to “protect children and vulnerable communities” from the dangerous impact of pollution. It stressed the commitment of EPA to curb pollution from the power sector aggressively to provide clean air for all sections of people.   

The Trump administration had reversed the rule in May 2020 because it believed this is a huge burden on the industry. According to its calculation, the costs of compliance – which include installation of scrubbers to curb pollution -- would impose on power companies per year outweighs the $4-6 billion benefits from the regulation. But according to the Obama administration, the benefits were to the tune of $90 billion over five years, including 11,000 premature deaths, 4,700 heart attacks and 130,000 asthma attacks every year.

A section of the industry has already installed scrubbers and are ready to comply with the upcoming rule. But there are others who are likely to sue the EPA over new rules.

Despite the legal wranglings most environmentalists have welcomed the regulations, since mercury pollution has far reaching implications in growing children.

READ MORE: 

https://edition.cnn.com/2022/01/31/politics/epa-mercury-pollution-coal-plants-climate/index.html

https://www.nytimes.com/2022/01/31/climate/epa-mercury-pollution-coal.html

https://thehill.com/policy/energy-environment/592133-biden-administration-proposes-to-restore-legal-basis-for-power