Angel Di Maria is leaving PSG in the summer. Hence here are a few clubs that have shown their interest in the winger:

A move to Tottenham Hotspur?

Tottenham Hotspur were the first club to be linked with Angel Di Maria after rumours of his PSG exit surfaced. The Spurs are on the lookout for a winger and Di Maria would certainly fit the bill. 

But Angel Di Maria's earlier stint with Manchester United was not very productive. The Argentine played the 2014/15 season with the Red Devils but he could not reach his true potential. Hence, a move to Tottenham Hotspur could give Di Maria a chance to right his wrongs.




Juventus seem interested in Angel Di Maria! 

The Serie A giants are also interested in Angel Di Maria as per sources. Juventus are set to lose out on Paulo Dybala in the summer. Hence replacing him with Di Maria could help them balance the equation. 

Juventus are reportedly set to undergo major changes before the 2022/23 season. Hence the Argentine could help bring forth a new chapter in the Italian club's history. 





A move to Barcelona is on the cards?

Angel Di Maria made 190 appearances for Real Madrid between 2010 and 2014. Hence a move to heated rivals Barcelona would be termed very controversial. Nevertheless, the Argentine had claimed earlier that he would be open to moving to the Blaugrana. 

Barcelona were linked with Di Maria in the 2021 summer transfer window as well. But the Spanish giants could eventually not do anything due to the overwhelming debt. Hence it has to be seen if they can sign the player this time around.



Could Angel Di Maria be headed to Atletico Madrid? 

Atletico Madrid are another Spanish club that are interested in the 34-year-old. Diego Simeone is reportedly impressed by his prowess and hence he wants to sign the player in the summer. 

Luis Suarez is looking likely to leave the current LaLiga Champions in the summer. Joao Felix has also been scouted by Premier League clubs and hence Someone wants to bolster his squad with Di Maria in the summer. 