If you’re looking forward to shooting off bottle rockets and Roman candles this Fourth of July, I’ve got good news and bad news.

The bad is that fireworks prices are soaring this year along with pretty much everything else. The good news, however, is that at least you don’t need to worry about a shortage - there should be plenty of rockets, fountains and sparklers to go around.

I’m an economist who has been following the fireworks industry for years. Despite soaring wholesale prices, I believe the latest data suggests you may be able to beat inflation and snag some fireworks deals - if you’re patient.

Fireworks imports at a record
Fireworks were first invented in China over 2,000 years ago. Today, that’s where most of the world’s fireworks still come from.

China has been responsible for 87% of the world’s fireworks exports since 2010. Much of these are low-priced mass market products, like firecrackers and Roman candles, the kind you’ll find at your local fireworks store.

In the U.S., regular people – as opposed to professional pyrotechnicians – typically light off the most fireworks around the Fourth of July, and so businesses import large amounts well in advance of the holiday to ensure a large supply.

The U.S. imported 185 million pounds of fireworks, mostly from China, in the first four months of 2022, the latest data available. That’s already 27% ahead of last year’s record pace. And this doesn’t even include figures for May and June, the two months that usually account for the biggest volumes in a typical year.

The figures include about 5.5 million pounds of fireworks for professional displays - which means that all but about 3% of these imports are intended for private consumer use. The 179 million pounds aimed at consumers already equates to over half a pound of fireworks for every man, woman and child living in the U.S - with more on the way. In all of 2021, the U.S. imported a record 1.25 pounds of fireworks per person.

Read more: https://theconversation.com/yes-fireworks-prices-are-skyrocketing-but-there-should-be-plenty-of-bottle-rockets-and-sparklers-for-you-and-your-family-this-fourth-of-july-185182