The United Nations Children's Fund (UNICEF) in Afghanistan had warned last month that one million Afghan children could die from severe acute malnutrition if urgent actions were not taken. And despite the emergency, the Taliban-led Afghan government had admitted that there were no exclusive malnutrition care centers, especially for infants. ( https://tolonews.com/index.php/health-177212 )

Although the Afghan government was a little reluctant in admitting that there were malnutrition deaths among children, it has been forced to disclose now with the Ministry of Public Health (MoPH) saying that at least 323 malnourished children have died since the beginning of 2022. The ministry has also said that malnutrition has affected nearly 200,000 children in the last one year. The ministry says that the number of children suffering from malnutrition could be around 4.4. million in Afghanistan. ( https://tolonews.com/index.php/health-176650 )

According to the UN, malnutrition was expected as 95 percent of the Afghan population is not eating enough food, with that percentage rising to almost 100 per cent for female-headed households. The number of people facing acute hunger in Afghanistan had increased from 14 million in July 2021 to 23 million in March 2022. ( https://www.dawn.com/news/1680380 )

According to health experts, the takeover of The Taliban in August last year has meant that access to international aid has been challenging and moreover, with hardly any employment being generated, poverty is stark, leading to a surge in malnourished children across Afghanistan.

The UNICEF says as many as 13 million children could be in need of humanitarian assistance. With diseases like measles and acute watery diarrhoea continuing to spread, the problem could be too big to surmount unless humanitarian and medical aid is increased. Up to 97 per cent of all Afghan families could be living below the poverty line in a matter of months, the UNICEF has said. ( https://www.unicef.org/press-releases/international-community-and-de-facto-authorities-must-find-ways-work-together-sake )