In Retirement continues .....
“(1) The present Constitution of India is drafted on the lines of the Government of India Act 1935 which envisaged a Federal Constitution for India with 562 Indian States, as units and also different provinces of India. My reading 
of that Act is that the British made it to perpetuate their rule keeping India 
divided into different autonomous units most of whom will tow their line and 
always side with the ruling power and show allegiance to British crown. The 
Muslim League, the princes, were envisaged to keep on fighting the Congress, and the whole scheme was to keep the British flag flying and kill the movement for independence. This was the underlying policy of the Act of 1935. Unwit￾tingly—and perhaps at the moment that was the only feasible way of making 
the Constitution—our Constitution makers adopted the Federal Constitution 
of the Act of 1935, but disruption, disunity and provincialism were buried 
deep into the structure of that Act and is bound to show itself in course of time. 
Now the position is changed. There is no necessity of having autonomous States in India. The country is one and can be easily governed under a unitary system of Government, India being a united country 
should be governed by a unitary system of Government. 
“(2) Otherwise envisage what may well happen as the result of any election. 
Some States may return a Communist majority, some others a communal 
majority, in some there may be groups of independents in majority and so on, 
so forth. Under the present Constitution these autonomous States can make 
laws, dealings with the subject of law and order, police, crime, agriculture 
etc. etc. They can have armed constabulary, can finish their opponents by preventive detention laws. 
“Provincialism will rule supreme in services. The unity of land will be in 
danger. Small demigods and Rajas will rule different States. With a weak Centre what happened after the decline of the Mughal Empire, the same history will be repeated. I see the country going that way. The only safeguard s to do away with autonomous States. We are all one, why have autonomous 
States. 