4. Leeds United 


With just 2 matches left, Leeds United are in the relegation zone, 18th, collecting 34 points from 36 matches. Earlier Marcelo Bielsa coached sides were expected to finish at least in the first 10 positions. After getting promoted to top flight after 16 years in 2020-21, they finished 9th in the season. American coach Jesse Marsch's team has won only 3 games out of 10, losing 5. Raphinha is the top scorer of the club in the season with 10 goals. 



3. Leicester City


With 3 matches remaining, they have 45 points. Leicester were 5th in the previous two seasons. The UEFA Conference league semi finalists couldn't continue their form and score enough goals in the season. They have scored only 52 goals compared to  69 and 67 in the previous seasons. Jeremy Vardy is the top scorer for the club, with 12 goals, from 22 matches. 



2. Chelsea


Every season Chelsea manages to stay in top 4, but this season has been very inconsistent from December 2021. With Tuchel, Lukaku joining the team, and winning the Champions League, fans expected a better finish from the London team. Even though they have reached the final of the FA cup,  Season also saw their legendary Russian owner Roman Abramovic leaving the club due to the Russia-Ukraine war. Mason Mount is the top scorer of the team with 11 goals. Chelsea will be facing Watford and Arsenal in their final league matches. 



1. Manchester United


The most league titles won by the club are about to finish with least points in the club history league this season. With just 1 match remaining, they have just 58 points, previous lowest being 64 (2013-14). Season started with high hopes when super player Cristiano Ronaldo returned to the club. But, as the season progressed, they showed lack of quality, effort and mentality. De Gea (126 saves-second in league) fought well at the goal even when defense made unnecessary mistakes. Ronaldo showed his class by scoring 18 goals so far. Fans can hope for a change in next season as Former Ajax coach Erik ten Hag has confirmed as coach. 