According to the World Health Organization, the number of individuals living with the condition increased from 108 million in 1980 to 422 million in 2014.Despite the disease's prevalence, considerable study need to be done in order to completely comprehend it. While obesity is connected to diabetes, experts are still unsure of the specific reasons why fat causes diabetes.
Concordia academics Kerri Delaney and Sylvia Santosa look at how fat tissue from different sections of the body may contribute to diabetes development in men and women in a new report published in the journal Obesity Reviews. They combed through over 200 scientific publications in search of a better knowledge of how fat works at the surface and in tissues, as well as the processes by which that tissue contributes to the formation of diabetes.
Fat appears to exhibit different features in men and women. They grow differently, are dispersed differently and interact with the inflammatory and immune system differently. For example, in men fat tissue expands because the fat cells grow in size; in women, fat cells multiply and increase in number. This changes with the loss of the protective hormone estrogen that disappears with menopause and may explain why men are more susceptible to diabetes earlier in life than women.
Working from the hypothesis that diabetes risk is driven by expansions of visceral fat in men and of subcutaneous fat in women, the researchers then looked through the papers to see what was happening in the cell-level microenvironments.
Santosa, an associate professor at the department of Health, Kinesiology, and Applied Physiology, says, "Currently, the management of diabetes is same for men and women." "We might include these pathways in providing therapies to men and women depending on how diabetic drugs operate if we better understood the distinctions between them.” She hopeshope that by identifying how diabetes risks are different in men and women, clinical approaches to treatment of the disease can be better defined between the sexes.