The MCU’s upcoming fourth Thor movie, Thor: Love and Thunder, is reportedly set for reshoots in the coming weeks. Reshoots are commonplace in modern Hollywood, especially in the age of the superhero movie. With dozens of inter-connected comic book adventures filming simultaneously, and attempting to craft one over-arching narrative, there is often a need for big-budget blockbusters like Thor: Love and Thunder to head back to the studio for further streamlining, to ensure the best fan experience. Reshoots are often controversial, such as the infamous Joss Whedon theatrical release of Justice League. However, they can also provide films with their most memorable scenes, with Darth Vader’s action sequence in Rogue One: A Star Wars Story being a prime example.

Thor: Love and Thunder is set to pick up the Norse God’s story directly after his challenging redemption arc in 2019’s epic Avengers: Endgame. Chris Hemsworth’s hero is set to team up with his old flame, Natalie Portman’s Jane Foster, as she finds herself endowed with the powers of Thor as per the Mighty Thor comics. Directed by Thor: Ragnarok’s Taika Waititi, the film is set to once again be an action-packed sci-fi comedy trip. As well as featuring returning characters like Korg (Waititi) and Valkyrie (Tessa Thompson), Thor: Love and Thunder will also see the arrival of Gorr the God Butcher, the sinister Marvel villain being played by Christian Bale.

RELATED:
Why Thor Has Goats In Love & Thunder (Marvel History Explained)

Now, according to The Wrap, the long-awaited Thor: Love and Thunder is set for a series of reshoots in the coming weeks. During an article discussing Disney’s troubled 2012 flick John Carter and its own reshoots, the publication reports that the summer release is “going back for additional photography in the next few weeks.” With marketing for the MCU flick well under way, and an expected release date of July 8, 2022, it is likely that these reshoots were not part of the original production plan.