In the fascinating short story 'Babu Gopi Nath', which is about a wealthy bohemian bania who moves from Lahore to Bombay and surrounds himself with scroungers while he seeks to settle a young sex worker he’s taken under his wing, there is a passage where Gopi Nath tells the narrator: ‘’There are only two places where my heart finds peace: prostitutes’ kothas and saints’ shrines”

Doubtless, Manto fell out with the Progressive Writers’ Association because he was too independent to play the abject role that Stalinist parties worldwide expected from the writers associated with them. The cynicism that runs through Manto’s Letters to Uncle Sam shows that he was equidistant between the US and the USSR, denouncing the Americans for their military aid to the mullahs. Here he is, dripping with irony: “Let India make all the fuss it wants to, you must sign a military pact with Pakistan because you are very worried about the stability of the world’s largest Islamic state. And why not, given that our mullah is the best antidote to Russian communism. Once military aid starts flowing, the first people you should arm are these mullahs. You must also send them American-made rosaries and prayer mats…”.

Manto’s nephew Hamid Jalal tells that he could compose a short story in one sitting even when the room was full of children running around and of guests and family members engaged in conversation.

The last years of Manto’s life were a tragic descent into self-dissolution fuelled by excessive drinking. But it’s worth noting that this phase of his life began with the partition and the dilemmas that created (“I found it impossible to decide which of the two countries was now my homeland—India or Pakistan”), by a concurrent slump in the Bombay film industry and by his sudden decision to leave India for Lahore. In this welter of depressing circumstances the most immediate trigger may well have been the notice of termination Manto received from the film company connected with Bombay Talkies, viz. Filmistan. At least Safia, his wife, said many years later that that was when he started drinking heavily.