Masturbation, particularly female masturbation, has long been considered hazardous, unhealthy, and taboo. Something about women handling it alone still doesn't sit well with our collective imagination. Masturbation has never been mentioned in our sex discussions. Not in the Bible, not in the text books, nowhere. The symptoms of thwarted female sexual desire have been misinterpreted as "hysteria" for generations. There are still some severe myths about female masturbation that need to be dispelled.

According to a national survey, one out of every five women has never masturbated in their lives. Never. This is significant because masturbation is not only the safest form of sex, but it also has a number of health benefits, ranging from improved sleep to fewer severe menstrual cramps—and it can help women better understand their sexuality. So, why aren't more women stepping up to help? Even admitting that some women use masturbation as a regular self-care ritual, like going to the gym or getting a manicure, was considered transgressive until recently.

There's a widespread notion that female libido is unusual. The patriarchal power system is perpetuated by this taboo, which leads to women's objectification (even in bed). The concept of 'dominance and subordination' is to blame here. But the question remains: is feminine pleasure our society's last true taboo? When female pleasure is just as natural a need as our male counterparts, it's crucial to consider where and how we may have been conditioned to hold these views.

Female self-pleasure has been an enigmatic topic for decades. It remains a riddle wrapped in mystery for many. But have you ever pondered why everything is kept so quiet? Why do we have such a hard time expressing ourselves when it comes to women touching themselves? Why is it that we have a million words for jerking off but only one for vulva and clits? The first step toward dispelling the stigma and appreciating the beauty of women exploring themselves is to talk about it and acknowledge its brilliance. The only reason for the stigmatization for it is misogyny. The hatred of women. It doesn't make sense, but then again, when did patriarchy ever make sense?