By Surinder Singh Oberoi

Srinagar: Defence Minister Rajnath Singh, on his visit to Kashmir on June 17, hinted at conducting J&K elections in November or December 2022. Even though intermittent target killings and terrorist-related incidents continue to worry the administration, local politicians and civil society. "There's a strong possibility that the electoral process will commence by the end of this year in J&K," Defence Minister Rajnath Singh said while addressing an event in Jammu.

Just two weeks after (June 30), the Election Commission issued an order directing a particular summary revision of electoral photo rolls with October 1 as the qualifying date in J&K. The pre-revision activity will conclude on August 30. It is happening after a gap of three years. The poll panel needs to publish the final revised list by October 31. Polls will likely take place in the last week of November and December 2022 in phases.

Now all eyes will be on the Kashmir elections, and most foreign missions and international organisations will be monitoring the polls and their process from India or outside India.

Holding elections in Kashmir will attract global media, foreign countries, and humanitarian and international organisations, more so as the polls in J&K are being held for the first time after abrogating the special constitutional status on August 5, 2019, and division of the erstwhile J&K State into two union territories.

On June 29, Lt Governor of J&K, Manoj Sinha, invited leaders of the mainstream political parties to Raj Bhavan for the first time. The main agenda of the meeting was the yearly Hindu Pilgrimage month-long Amarnath Yatra and its security. Political Pundits see this as the first step by the centre to gain the trust of the mainstream political parties. If the whisper is to be believed, then Lt Governor suggested political leaders start their political campaigning. He again invited them for a meeting after the completion of the Yatra in the middle of August 2022.

Read the full story here:- https://www.newsdrum.in/national/jammu-kashmir-polls-are-on-the-bend-preliminary-groundworks-commence-53191.html