To enhance the digital health ecosystem of India, the private and government HMIS, LMIS, health lockers, health tech organizations and other digital services by Central and State Governments are joining together with ABDM infrastructure. 

Under the flagship scheme of Ayushman Bharat Digital Mission, the National Health Authority announced about the completion of 27 major integrations across Government and private sector.  The integrations are with organizations that offer Health Management Information Systems (HMIS), Laboratory Management Information Systems (LMIS), health locker services, health tech services and other digital services. They are the stepping stone towards developing a user-inclusive, integrated and interoperable digital healthcare eco-system for the country. 

On 27th September 2021, it was launched nationwide by the Hon’ble Prime Minister of India, Shri Narendra Modi. 

ABDM aims to create a seamless online platform that will enable interoperability within the digital healthcare ecosystem. ABDM has developed building blocks and interoperable APIs to offer a seamless digital healthcare experience for all stakeholders – health facilities, patients and healthcare professionals. The digital ecosystem developed is now accessible to health facilities and health tech players for integration. 

With this integration a partnership is formed between ABDM and various health tech partners. This partnership helps to bridge the existing gap amongst different stakeholders of healthcare ecosystem. 

Dr R S Sharma, CEO, NHA, further explained on ABDM's role, “The overarching objective of Ayushman Bharat Digital Mission is to deliver health services in an affordable manner with quality and accessibility. These health services should be available everywhere in the country and obviously technology tools will reduce the concept of distance. The system which we are building is an interoperable, open system which is based on open source with open APIs and open standards. So that basically enables every or public player, whosoever wants to integrate with the system to integrate with ABDM.” 

Sources - https://pib.gov.in/PressReleseDetail.aspx?PRID=1796553