World Football Summit speaks exclusively with UEFA director of football and social responsibility, Michele Uva, about racism in football and how the sport can play a fundamental role in shaping a better future for society. Read the full article here: https://worldfootballsummit.com/uefas-michele-uva-simply-raising-awareness-of-racism-in-football-no-longer-enough/ 

World Football Summit: What’s your perspective on UEFA and football’s role in the search for sustainability, one of today’s global buzzwords?

Michele Uva: There is no doubt that sustainability is gaining importance in society and football. Awareness of these issues is growing within member associations, fan groups, clubs, and leagues. As UEFA and European football form an intrinsic part of society, we are being called upon to contribute to the solution. And we can, because football has the unique ability to activate an enormous reach within one of the largest communities in Europe.

WFS: Ending racism by 2030 is another relevant target, although it seems more aspirational than a reality. What effective measures can UEFA take to really make a change?

Uva: It’s indeed one of our aspirational targets, and we need to be ambitious to eradicate racism in all its forms on and around the pitch across European football.

WFS: Are punitive measures, such as closing stadiums, part of the plan?

Uva: This is a matter for the disciplinary area and legal teams. However, that’s a reaction. Within our Football and Social Responsibility Division we focus on prevention and education.

WFS: Is there anything specific in place looking ahead at Germany 2024?

Uva: In preparation for the UEFA Euro 2024 in Germany, we are looking to take specific steps to measure and benchmark the event’s sustainability performance, and a focus to reduce the emissions and the impact of our competition.

WFS: What can fans do to lower their environmental impact when they travel?

Uva: As I’ve said before, we’re just at a starting point in our mission, and we want to link awareness with innovation. Accelerating action also implies resorting to innovation.

Read the full interview here: https://worldfootballsummit.com/uefas-michele-uva-simply-raising-awareness-of-racism-in-football-no-longer-enough/