There have been mounting calls from Ukrainian and other activists and political leaders to prosecute Russian President Vladimir Putin for war crimes in Ukraine, including authorizing attacks on civilians. There has also been public skepticism that this could actually happen.

History provides some lessons on charging political leaders with war crimes – a legal term that includes attacking and killing civilians during war.

Ukraine already convicted and sentenced three Russian soldiers, in May 2022, for war crimes during the ongoing Ukraine conflict, and it plans to prosecute at least 80 more soldiers. But as a scholar of human rights, conflict and international courts, I think it is important to understand that there has been a mixed record of arresting and prosecuting senior political and military leaders allegedly responsible for atrocities.

The international trial of Serbian leader Slobodan Misolevic in the mid-2000s is one example of how international courts can prosecute war criminals.

Here’s the bottom line: It’s only when leaders like Milosevic fall from power that there is any chance that their governments may arrest and hand them over to international courts for prosecution.

But history also shows that even if Putin is overthrown or otherwise loses power, there’s no clear guarantee that he will ever stand trial before an international court.

Milosevic sits in a suit, with two guards in blue shirts on either side of him.
Serbian leader Slobodan Milosevic refused a lawyer during his hearings before the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia in the early 2000s. Raphael Gaillarde/Gamma-Rapho via Getty Images
Milosevic’s fall from power
There were three major wars in southeastern Europe in the 1990s. In total, approximately 130,000 people died during the wars in Croatia, Bosnia and Kosovo. The rise of nationalism and tension between different ethnic groups triggered these conflicts.

The spark for these wars was kindled in 1991, when Yugoslavia, a former communist republic that once included Bosnia and Herzegovina, Croatia, Macedonia, Montenegro, Serbia and Slovenia, began to split apart.

Read more: https://theconversation.com/international-courts-prosecuting-leaders-like-putin-for-war-crimes-have-a-mixed-record-but-offer-clues-on-how-to-get-a-conviction-182029