Royals Sports Group-owned franchise Rajasthan Royals are preparing to play their seventh match of their IPL 2022 campaign as they face Delhi Capitals on Friday. Having rejoined the Rajasthan-based franchise for his third stint, Paddy Upton, who is serving as the Team Catalyst, sat down to share his thoughts on the new role as he looks to build cohesion and bring everyone together to create an environment which enables the team to excel on the field.

“As the Team Catalyst, my role is to help bring everyone together. In a new set-up, you've got 24 players and about 10 coaches that haven't always worked together. So, my job is to try and get the players together - to understand each other, communicate better, understand the game plans and be clear with our objectives. And the same applies for the coaches,” expressed Paddy, addressing talks and opinions around what the role of Team Catalyst in cricket involves.

“It is about getting everyone aligned with our philosophy, with our game plans, and how we are going to operate. I think whoever can do that better and faster is probably going to, at least in the first half of the tournament, do better than other teams,” added the 53-year-old.

Asked to identify the difference between the roles of a mental conditioning coach and a team catalyst, Paddy stated, “As the Team Catalyst, mental conditioning becomes one aspect of it where you are taking care of the mental well-being and keeping them fresh. Whereas, when I deep dive into my role as the Catalyst, it involves other things which help me pull everyone together as a tight, cohesive unit.”

He continued, “It is very much man-management. But it also involves working with the coaches and aligning the work that I do with what the coaches are doing, and how that directly impacts training and on-field performance. So, man-management is one thing, and cricket expertise is another, and one of the arts is actually marrying them and making it a seamless process between the two of them.”

To be continued...