"Interstellar" is an exhilarating slalom through the wormholes of Christopher Nolan's imagination that is at once a science-geek fever dream and a formidable consideration of what makes us human.  "Interstellar" is an exhilarating slalom through the wormholes of Christopher Nolan's imagination. The film is at once a science-geek fever dream and a formidable consideration of what makes us human. "We're a caretaker generation," notes one such homesteader (John Lithgow) to his widower son-in-law, Cooper (Matthew McConaughey), a former NASA test pilot who hasn't stopped dreaming of flight, for himself and for his children: 15-year-old son Tom (Timothee Chalamet) and 10-year-old daughter Murphy (Mackenzie Foy), the latter a precocious tot first seen getting suspended from school for daring to suggest that the Apollo space missions actually happened. 

Interstellar" opens on the cusp of a second Dust Bowl, ravaged by an epidemic of crop blight. As the crops die, so the Earth's atmosphere becomes richer in nitrogen and poorer in oxygen. NASA still exists in this agrarian dystopia, but it's gone off the grid, far from the microscope of public opinion. Both plans involve abandoning Earth and starting over on a new, life-sustaining planet, but only one includes taking Earth's current population along for the ride.

It's hard to think of a mainstream Hollywood film that has successfully translated complex ideas to lay audience so well. Reviewer David Bianculli says the film trusts in the audience's ability to follow along.
It gives nothing away, but the film offers so many wonderful surprises.

Christopher Nolan, a master of the gradual reveal, is the star of "Interstellar." The movie's almost three-hour runtime is barely noticed. In "Interstellar," some characters deceive themselves and their closest confidants, but others make up for it by giving of themselves. The massive Imax screen begs to be used for "Interstellar". One of Hans Zimmer's most imaginative and creative compositions is contributed. All celluloid was used for Nolan's shooting and post-production (in a mix of 35mm and 70mm stocks).