The cancellation of the Manitoba Marathon due to extreme heat may provide a case study for athletic event management in extreme weather.

As researchers in kinesiology and recreation management, we took an interest in how the disruption was handled not only professionally, but also from a personal perspective: one of us (Shaelyn) was participating in the half marathon.

The race was cancelled after it had started, with runners already an hour into the race. The result was ambiguity and confusion. Runners were left scratching their heads both during and after the race: wondering what they were supposed to do during the disruption, and pondering how the course shutdown was handled after the event.

Racing in the heat
Hot road races may become more common. The climate crisis is expected to increase severe weather, which can have devastating consequences such as loss of life, injury and illness when people are unprepared. Even when lives are not lost, the negative experience of an emergency can have psychological consequences.
Runners can train for heat, wear appropriate clothing and hydrate, but even these steps are often not sufficient to overcome the effects of heat. Exercising in heat and humidity poses a serious challenge to the body’s ability to regulate body temperature and running in such conditions can significantly decrease performance and lead to health issues such as exhaustion and heat stroke.

Managing the hazards posed by a changing climate will be necessary for all community event organizers going forward.

A runner’s perspective
Shaelyn’s first-person account is helpful in understanding what happened on the course during the cancelled Manitoba Marathon. Here is her experience:

Like other runners, I had trained in an extremely cold winter and spring and was not prepared for a hot run in the record high temperatures that were forecast for this late June race.

Event representatives urged runners to stay hydrated and to adjust their goal given the anticipated heat. 

Read more: https://theconversation.com/lessons-from-a-cancelled-marathon-athletic-events-heat-and-the-effects-of-climate-change-186021