The Supreme Court ruling striking down a century-old New York gun law will cause the amount of firearms in the hands of “criminals” to skyrocket — turning the Empire State into the “Wild East,” a top police official warned.

NYPD Deputy Commissioner John Miller predicted in an interview aired Sunday that the number of people allowed to carry guns in New York City will “surge” as a result of the high court’s decision overturning a law that restricted the carrying of concealed firearms.

“The worry here is that they’re going to make this the wild, wild East,” he told “The Cats Roundtable” host John Catsimatidis on WABC 770.

The Sullivan Act, which dated back to 1913, required New Yorkers show “proper cause” that a handgun was needed for self-defense in order to obtain a license to carry it in public. The New York State Rifle and Pistol Association and two upstate men challenged the law, claiming it violated their Second Amendment rights.

In a ruling released Thursday, Justice Clarence Thomas wrote for the 6-3 majority that the law “violates the Fourteenth Amendment by preventing law-abiding citizens with ordinary self-defense needs from exercising their right to keep and bear arms in public.”

Miller, the NYPD’s deputy commissioner of intelligence and counterterrorism, projected that overturning the law would increase suicides, as well as accidental shootings by children. The quantity of violent lawbreakers who wind up possessing firearms would soar, too, he said.

“Nobody can really tell a story that says any great good has come from these kinds of changes in other places,” he said.

“We do know that if you go into a situation where there’s a lot of restricted locations where you cannot carry your firearm — whether that’s hospitals or schools — that people tend to leave those in cars, the cars tend to get broken into, and the guns tend to get stolen, which means that legally obtained guns are now turning into illegal guns in the hands of criminals,” Miller explained.  