Jensen talked about Jared's lovely reaction to him directing an episode of Walker in an interview with EW. While Ackles had previously directed on the set of Supernatural, stepping onto a whole new set in the role of director was a new experience for him. Padalecki, on the other hand, stepped in to make Ackles' experience as pleasant as possible. Padalecki addressed Ackles as his brother and said he wouldn't be where he is now without him in a speech. Here's what Ackles had to say:

"Well, look, it was still a friendly set. [Laughs] Jared had laid the groundwork like, 'This is my brother. I'm here because of what he and I built together.' He gave a great speech to the whole crew, saying, 'We wouldn't be here without the work that this guy did with me.' I was vouched for by the commander-in-chief, so although I was a guest in someone else's house, it was a house that felt very welcoming."

While Ackles directed this week's episode of Walker, the CW crime drama starring Padalecki as the titular Texas Ranger, he did spend some time dropping a few Supernatural Easter eggs here and there for the viewers, the biggest Easter egg of all might be a full-on musical performance by the legendary rock band Kansas, which has been a long time coming for Padalecki and Ackles.

Long-time Supernatural fans will recall that Kansas' famous song "Carry On Wayward Son" has served as a sort of theme song for the Winchester brothers and Supernatural over the years. The goal was to have the band perform the song on the Supernatural season finale, but the realities of filming during the COVID-19 outbreak forced modifications, and the Kansas performance was canceled. Jensen and Jared reunited to fulfill this dream on Walker this time.

Fans around the globe are excited and, it'd be safe to say, going crazy about the much awaited work reunion of the duo. They've appeared together in many conventions since the finale of Supernatural but this is the first professional engagement of them together since, and they promise that there will be a lot of them ahead!