It is election season once again. But what makes these elections in five states distinct from others is that these just might draft the future course of Indian politics, and also set the tone for the general elections to be held in 2024.

The stakes are really high, especially for the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), given that it is seeking s second term in Uttar Pradesh, the largest state in India, and which holds the key to power at the Centre.

UP sends 80 of the 543 lawmakers to the Lok Sabha. The BJP managed to win 62 of the 80 seats in the 2019 general elections despite two powerful regional parties — the Samajwadi Party, and the Bahujan Samaj Party — joining hands.

Out of these five states, the BJP is in power in four — UP, Uttarakhand, Goa, and Manipur — and the Congress in Punjab. 

On Janaury 8, the Election Commission of India announced the schedule. Polling will be held in Punjab, Uttarakhand and Goa on February 14, while Manipur will go to polls in two phases on February 27 and March 3. UP will see a seven-phased poll, starting February 10. Votes polled will be counted on March 10. 

In 2017, BJP comprehensively won UP, and Uttarakhand, while the Congress registered a stupendous victory in Punjab. 

But Congress failed to form governments in Goa and Manipur despite emerging as the single-largest party in both the states. The BJP managed to do so by employing post-poll tactics which it has used in the past as well. The process exposed Congress’ Achilles heel — its legislators deserting the party when it needs them the most. Since then, Congress leaders have defected to many parties, and continue to do so.

The BJP will have to retain UP to maintain its position at the national level; winning UP is more important for Yogi Adityanath who would like to be the first among equals when it comes to the question: Who after Prime Minister Narendra Modi? 

Full story here:
https://www.moneycontrol.com/news/opinion/assembly-elections-will-set-the-course-for-2024-elections-7919451.html