One of Arsenal’s greatest ever goalkeepers, David Seaman signed for the Gunners in 1990, winning the league in his first season. Much like the famous defence ahead of him, Seaman stands astride two different eras in Arsenal history – the early Premier League years under George Graham and the later revolution under Arsene Wenger.
Throughout his 13-year spell at the club, Seaman was the rock on which multiple successful Arsenal sides were built. Calm and reliable, with an authoritative command of his defence, superb judgement on crosses, and immaculate positioning, Seaman twice made the PFA Team of the Year.
Celebrated for his dependable rather than eye-catching presence, ‘Safe Hands’ was nonetheless a splendid shot-stopper as well, blessed with rapid reflexes to pull off spectacular saves – the most famous for Arsenal being his denial of Paul Peschisolido in the 2003 FA Cup semi-final, improbably diving backwards and clawing and heaving away from danger a close-range header.
After a dream debut campaign, Seaman, who could have become a baker’s apprentice had a professional goalkeeping career not become reality, helped the Gunners to FA Cup and League Cup wins in 1993 and a Cup Winners’ Cup in 1994 – only Arsenal’s second League Cup and second European trophy ever.
Despite a reputation for high-profile errors – most famously straying off his line to be lobbed by Nayim in the 1995 Cup Winners’ Cup final and by Ronaldinho at the 2002 World Cup – Seaman’s adaptability remains underrated, adjusting as he did to the new backpass law and to Arsenal’s increasing emphasis on playing out from the back.
Famous for his iconic ponytail and moustache, ‘Spunky’ learned early in his Arsenal career from Graham to sweep behind a defence aggressively deploying the offside trap and the use of his weaker foot, essentially reinventing himself into a modern goalkeeper. The result was two ‘doubles’ and a further FA Cup as first-choice for Wenger’s new Arsenal.
He went out with a bang, captaining Arsenal to victory in the 2003 FA Cup final in his last appearance for the club. In all, Seaman made 564 appearances for Arsenal, winning nine major trophies.