During their menstrual cycle, most women experience a variety of distinct forms of discharge but it is usually white right before and after a period. Each day, you may create a teaspoon of thick or thin, odourless mucus, which can range in colour from white to clear to brown. 

The colour and texture of healthy discharge might vary. If the white discharge is accompanied by a foul odour, itching, or burning, an infection may be prevalent. It’s possible that this is a sexually transmitted infection (STI).  

White discharge, also known as leukorrhea in medical terms, is common in the second half of the menstrual cycle. It’s loaded with fluid and cells shed from your vaginal area, and it can even appear yellow at times.

A woman’s luteal phase is the last part of her menstrual cycle. It occurs when progesterone levels reach their highest point. The discharge is transparent, stretchy, or watery when the female sex hormone (estrogen) is the dominating hormone. On the other side, progesterone causes mucus to become cloudy or white. Some women monitor their discharge to see if they’re pregnant. This is known as a fertility awareness method or a natural family planning strategy.

Thin and stretchy mucus is considered fertile because it occurs around the time when an egg may be released. Cervical mucus that is a thick white discharge is deemed infertile. That makes sense because this sort of mucus is most common between ovulation and the start of your period when you’re no longer fertile.

Mucus may seem yellow in the days leading up to your menstruation. Brown discharge is also possible on the days either before your periods or after. The brownish discharge represents old blood leaving your body. 

However, up to three out of every four women will suffer from yeast infections at some point in their lives. If you suspect a yeast infection, there are some home remedies you can try that may help. Consult your doctor if your symptoms don’t if your symptoms don’t go away after a week or so of home treatment.



Sources: 

1-https://www.medicalnewstoday.com/articles/is-white-discharge-a-sign-of-period-coming
2-https://www.healthline.com/health/womens-health/white-discharge-before-period