A bombshell was dropped on the LNP's re-election strategy this week with the popular local mayor of Bundaberg, Jack Dempsey, announcing (on his birthday no less) he will run as an independent in the seat of Hinkler. 

It's a seat Labor last held during the Hawke-Keating years and had little hope of winning this time around with the incumbent MP, Resources Minister Keith Pitt, sitting on a margin of 14.2 per cent.

Labor may need seven seats to form a majority in its own right at next month's election but it also helps Labor's cause if a friendly face takes a seat from the Coalition, or the Liberal National Party (LNP) as they are formally known in Queensland.

Mr Dempsey was the local LNP MP for Bundaberg from 2006 to 2015 and police minister in the government of Campbell Newman — a period in which Bundaberg-born Keith Pitt inherited the seat of Hinkler.

After losing office, Mr Dempsey ran for mayor in 2016, dumping his LNP membership in the process.

He won with 71 per cent of the vote and won again in 2020 with 65 per cent of the first preference vote.

In those years, local political observers will tell you how the relationship between Mr Dempsey and Mr Pitt soured over various local issues including the cashless debit card, the Hinkler Regional Deal, and a proposal from Mr Dempsey for a flood levee.

It's a sign of a massive falling out between the former colleagues.

"And the Minister for 'no' here in Hinkler, I just say you had nine years to deliver," Mr Dempsey said on Thursday. 

"Mr Pitt is out of touch with the local community on climate change, the housing crisis, flood mitigation and coal mining."

Opposition descends on Bundaberg

At the same time, Labor's most senior federal MPs, including Leader Anthony Albanese, Shadow Treasurer Jim Chalmers and Senator Anthony Chisholm, a former state secretary of the party, have been making repeated visits to Bundaberg.

Read the entire story here:- https://www.abc.net.au/news/2022-04-09/qld-politics-federal-election-strategy-bombshell-jack-dempsey/100977900