Arsenal will hope to start the season with two back-to-back wins when they face the Foxes on Saturday in gameweek 2 of the English Premier League. Arsenal are set to play their first home fixture of the season against Leicester City at Emirates Stadium. 

In the first game of their campaign, Arsenal registered a convincing 2-0 win over Crystal Palace at Selhurst Park. Though Crystal Palace tried their best to snatch the joy of Arsenal, they could not. Mikel Arteta will look to redeem himself as a manager this season after a fruitful summer transfer window.

On the other hand, Leicester City threw away the two-goal lead that they had against Brentford in the opening game of the campaign. Leicester City were leading the game by 2-0 till the 62nd minute. Ivan Toney scored in the 62nd minute to reduce the deficit whereas Josh D’Silva scored in the 86th minute to spoil the Foxes’ party. 

Arsenal vs Leicester City Match Details

Match: Arsenal vs Leicester City 

Date and Time: 13th August, 7:30 PM IST

Venue: Emirates Stadium

Arsenal vs Leicester City Probable Playing XI

Arsenal: Aaron Ramsdale; Ben White, William Saliba, Gabriel, Oleksandr Zinchenko; Granit Xhaka, Thomas Partey; Bukayo Saka, Martin Odegaard, Gabriel Martinelli; Gabriel Jesus

Leicester City: Daniel Iversen; Thomas Amartey, Wesley Fofana, Jonny Evans; James Justin, Wilfred Ndidi, Youri Tielemans, Lucas Castagne; James Maddison, Kelechi Iheanacho; Jamie Vardy

Arsenal vs Leicester City Probable Winners

Arsenal are in great form after the first game of the campaign alongside the pre-season. On the other hand, Leicester City are the only side to buy a player in the summer transfer window. Two contradicting teams face each other on Saturday and we expect Arsenal to win in their backyard. 

Predictions: Arsenal 2-0 Leicester City

 Arsenal vs Leicester City Live Stream

The Arsenal vs Leicester City game is available on the Disney+Hotstar application and Star Sports Network. Sky Sports Network will telecast the game for the residents in the UK.