Like so many across the globe, I have always considered the present Dalai Lama as being special. The insider’s perspective afforded in assuming the role of the Principal of the Dalai Lama Institution, Bengaluru, by invitation, has only sharpened and strengthened this view. Amongst his manifold achievements, in the field of education alone, the reasons are as follows. First, the Dalai Lama prioritised the education of Tibetan children, to reflect and preserve Tibet’s unique language, culture and traditions. Second, he simultaneously prioritised the education of the monastics, not just recreating in exile all the key monasteries, with their remarkably high level of learning, but also modernising their curriculums with the addition of basic schooling in science and the learning of English. Third, he reproduced libraries and other key institutions of Tibetan arts and culture. Fourth, he advocated for universal ethics to be mainstreamed into educational systems. Fifth, the Dalai Lama built strong bridges with the scientific community by engaging in lifelong conversations with them.

Paraphrasing from Arya Nagarjuna’s Precious Garland, where a bodhisattva-aspirant prays her mere name benefits other beings, it is fair to say the Dalai Lama has actualised it. This is evident on seeing the numerous impressive educational and scholastic institutions conceived, permitted, funded and built on the back of his name across the southern Tibetan settlements and indeed, the whole of India. It goes further, as due to the respect he garners across the board amongst the Indian intelligentsia, these institutions have received affiliations and other recognition. Internationally, too, due to the Dalai Lama’s reputation, top ivy league universities today have centres and labs undertaking cutting-edge research on compassion and various universal values from the perspective of numerous disciplines.

Continued here:- https://www.pixstory.com/story/a-letter-to-younger-tibetans-part-41657111086/113983