In order to get pregnant, sperm must meet up with an egg. When a fertilised egg implants in the uterine lining, pregnancy officially begins. It takes up to 2-3 weeks after sexual intercourse for becoming pregnant.

Don’t rely on luck if you’re trying to conceive a baby. Learn about the ways to get pregnant, starting with ovulation prediction and fertility do’s and don’ts. 

*Predicting ovulation:*
Knowing when you’re ovulating (when the ovary releases an egg) and having intercourse regularly five days before and on the day of ovulation can increase your chances of becoming pregnant. 
Ovulation is the release of a mature egg from the ovary. The egg moves down the fallopian tube after being released and stays there for 12 to 24 hours, where it can be fertilised. Under proper conditions, sperm can survive for up to five days inside the female reproductive tract after sexual intercourse. When live sperm are present in the fallopian tubes during ovulation, your chance of getting pregnant is the most.

*Fertility Dos:*
Follow these simple steps to get pregnant:
1. Have sex on a regular basis 
2. Have sex right before ovulation 
3. Maintain a healthy body weight 

*Fertility Don’ts:*
To improve your ways to get pregnant:
1. Avoid smoking 
2. Don’t consume alcoholic beverages 
3. Avoid caffeine consumption 
4. Don’t overdo when it comes to strenuous activities 

*Call your doctor when:*
If you’ve been trying to conceive but haven’t been successful, consult your health care physician or a fertility specialist.
When should you see a doctor and how long should you wait? That is determined by your age. Before seeking medical aid, women under the age of 35 should try for at least a year. After 6 months of trying, women aged 35 and up should see a doctor.
Your health and medical history will be assessed by the doctor. Medications, insemination procedures, and surgery can all help people who are having trouble conceiving.
Sources: 
1-https://www.plannedparenthood.org/learn/pregnancy/how-pregnancy-happens
2-https://www.mayoclinic.org/healthy-lifestyle/getting-pregnant/in-depth/how-to-get-pregnant/art-20047611