In the Malwa region of southern Punjab, some Dalit workers have received barely half the state’s fixed daily wage under the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act. In Mansa, Patiala and Sangrur, Dalit workers received less than Rs 150 per day, against the Rs 263.16 per day they were supposed to be paid.

Mansa/ Patiala/ Sangrur: Gurjit Kaur, 32, who lives in Bajewala village of Mansa district’s Jhunir block, received only Rs 1,000 in February 2022 as wages for seven days of work under the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act (MGNREGA), 2005. “A few days’ wage gets deducted,” she said. 



She could not understand how her wages were calculated for the work she did clearing shrubs from the sides of a highway. According to the state-wise daily wage rates fixed by the union government  for the financial year 2021-22, workers under the workfare programme were to receive Rs 269 per day in Punjab. A rough calculation of Gurjit Kaur’s average daily wage for about 80 days of work she got in 2021-22 worked out to Rs 180 per day.      

The MGNREGA gives every rural Indian household a legal entitlement to100 days of work every year, a rights-based welfare scheme operated with the aid of community-based accountability mechanisms at the level of gram panchayats, village-level elected bodies.



But Gurjit Kaur said she could not question the sarpanch, the chief of the village-level elected representatives, or ask him to help resolve the problem. “Or else I might not get the work,” she said.

By the third week of March 2022, average pay per day under MGNREGA in Punjab stood at Rs 263.16—Gurjit Kaur had received about 53%  of the state average.

“I work to feed myself and the children,” said the mother of two. “Aise kaam karanda sanu ki fayda jab sahi dihadi nahi mildi? (What is the point of working so hard if I don’t get the wages I deserve?)”  

Source- https://article-14.com/post/in-punjab-caste-discrimination-in-key-employment-guarantee-programme-denies-minimum-wage-to-dalits-women-624b25d08fae1