By Vivek Gupta

Punjab, which often attracts people because of its culture, was not seen as a hardcore land of gangsters unlike Uttar Pradesh or other Indian states. 

Sidhu Moosewala’s sensational murder on Sunday is set to change the way Punjab is perceived otherwise.

Hours after the popular singer and rapper was gunned down in his home district Mansa on Sunday, one Goldy Brar of home-grown gangster Lawrence Bishnoi’s (currently in jail) gang claimed responsibility for the crime, citing a retaliation of Moosewala’s involvement in the killing of ‘our brother’ Vicky Midhukhera, a youth Akali Dal leader, who was shot dead last year in August.

Moosewala was also blamed by Brar, currently operating Bishnoi Gang from Canada, for the murder of the former student leader of Chandigarh’s Panjab University-based political party SOPU in October 2020.  

Soon after, Punjab director general of police (DGP) VK Bhawra went on to claim in his media statement, “Prima facie it seemed to be an inter-gang rivalry between Lawrence Bishnoi and Lucky Patial (-Bambiha) gangs.”

He further stated that Shaganpreet, who was the manager of Sidhu Moosewala, was also named as an accused in the Middukhera case. Later he escaped to Australia and was still wanted by the police.

These claims made several to associate Moosewala with the world of crime, forcing the Punjab government to issue a statement on Monday that DGP never affiliated him with any gangster, after Moosewala’s father condemned police for projecting his son in the wrong light.

Further, Lucky Patial-Bambhia gang too denied any association with Moosewala and blamed another singer Manjeet Aulkah for his murder. 

The incident, nevertheless, exposed the dark underbelly of the state, which, many believed, existed on the fringes for a long. The past police encounters killing dreaded gangsters like Vickey Gounder and Jaipal Singh Bhullar is a case in point. 

Read the full story here:- https://www.newsdrum.in/analysis/gangs-of-punjab-punjabs-gangs-in-the-spotlight-as-police-blames-inter-gang-rivalry-behind-moosewalas-murder-37740.html