1.Trikonasana (Triangle Pose)
Stand up on the mat with the left foot and right foot around 3-4 feet apart.Extend the arms straight out on either side comfortably at shoulder level so as not to strain the neck or shoulders.Inhale, turn the right foot to a 90-degree angle, exhale, placing the right hand on the knee, shin or ankle.The left arm should be extended towards the ceiling. Gaze towards the left hand.Stay here and breathe focusing on the stretch of the thighs and hips.Exhale and straighten the right leg, bringing the arms back to shoulder level.Repeat on the left side.

2.Setu Bandha Sarvangasana (Bridge Pose
Lying on the back, bend both your knees and place your feet flat on the floor so that they are hip width apart.Bring your arms alongside your body with your palms facing downwards.Inhale, press the feet into the floor and lift the hips up.Bring the hands onto the lower back to give support if you wish.Stay here for 10 seconds continuing to breathe deeply.Exhale and come down.Start by holding this asana for 10 seconds. Come down, rest for a few breaths, and then come back again.

3. Balasana (Child’s Pose)

Begin in a kneeling pose, sitting on the heels. This is Vajrasana.Inhale and bring your forehead to the ground.Your arms should be placed on either side of the body.Stay here and breatheFor an extra stretch bring the right arm underneath the left shoulder and look to your right fingers.Do the same on the other side.

4. Tadasana (Tree Pose)

Stand with your feet together and the arms relaxed by the side.Plant both feet firmly on the ground so that your body weight is distributed evenly.Raise the arms over the head, interlocking the fingers, and turn the palms upward.Inhale and stretch both the arms up, coming up onto your toes.Stay here and breathe, stretching the entire body from top to bottom, without losing balance and remaining grounded.On an exhale come down onto the feet and on another inhale, rise on the toes again. You can use this step to re-adjust for balance.
5.Bhujangasana (Cobra Pose)
Lie flat on the stomach with hands on either side of the chest.