Scout Report - Khvicha Kvaratskhelia
Goal Scoring 
Along with his 4 assists, The Georgian has 4 goals to his name. It's very less for an attacking winger. He has scored at 0.21 per 90. He had taken 51 shots out of which 24 were on target. Those numbers don't match his goal-scoring return. 
To recap: Khvircha is a very skillful player, who takes on defenders at ease, good with ball progression, and has a sense of spatial awareness.
Khvircha is destined for greatness. The boy from Georgia deserves to play in Europe’s top club and play in the Champions League. Sooner or later a big club will approach him for his services. They will help him improve his goal-scoring chances while improving his attacking output. 
Enter SSC Napoli
Napoli decided to snap the Georgian from Dinamo Batumi. They did correct investment on him, as he set the Serie A on fire. Losing Lorenzo Insigne and Dries Mertens who went to greener pastures, the Naples club was in jeopardy which will provide the team with creativity, and goals and they found their answer on Khvicha.
 In 6 matches he played, he scored 4 goals and has 1 assist to his name. Looking at his goal-scoring, it was the total he had accumulated with Rubin Kazan last season. In a recent match against ex-Champions League winners Liverpool, Napoli humbled them 4-1 with Khvicha making 1 assist to his name. He has been an instant hit with players and fans alike. He has been a breath of fresh air, after they lost Insigne and Mertens.
6  Match Review
Looking at his heatmap, we can see that he has been more active in the attacking third of the pitch. The area where it's bright yellow is where the most actions happened, in the form of touches, assists, and passes.  
Attacking Output(Passes, Goals, Touches, and Assists)
Khvicha has an attacking output of 71 percentile, which is quite decent considering he has played only 6 games, with the rest of the season left. Expect the numbers to go up. 
Let’s break the statistics into simpler terms.We will look into his:
1)Passing
2)Touches
3)Assist
4)Goal Scored
