Germany shut half of its nuclear plant by the end of 2021. The remaining three plants will be closed by the end of this year, making German electricity supply completely free from nuclear energy.
  
The new vice-chancellor Robert Habeck – leader of the Green Party, now part of the ruling coalition – must be terribly happy after the decision. After all, opposing nuclear energy is the core of activism of his party founded in 1980, as part of the anti-nuclear movement in the then West Germany. According to the party, nuclear energy should be phased out at any cost because nuclear waste from power plants can be harmful for thousands of years.
  
But the phasing out of nuclear power is happening at a time when the country is going through the worst energy crisis of recent time. This has primarily happened due to the rocketing price of natural gas – gone up 440% early this year – that comes mostly from Russia. Roughly a sixth of Germany’s energy comes from natural gas, a 10th from nuclear energy and a quarter each from renewables and coal.
  
Russia’s Ukraine imbroglio and Putin’s pressure tactics on NATO and EU have stifled gas supply to Germany. Renewable sources – solar or wind – need time to replace the gap created by nuclear power. And the country must phase out coal, and eventually natural gas, to minimize carbon emission and meet its climate change goal.
  
In this situation, nuclear power could be an ideal solution, if fighting climate change gains priority. Even if Germany is busy phasing out nuclear energy, its neighbors, especially France, are still going strong on nuclear. Moreover, other EU members like Hungary, Slovakia and Belgium too heavily depend on it. Czech Republic and Poland are planning to build new nuclear plants to phase out coal-based energy.

Now it needs to be seen if the current energy crisis will force Germany to rethink its plan to phase out nuclear power soon. But this won’t be easy for the government, which includes Green party members, to override public opinion and reverse its decision on nuclear shutdown.   

READ MORE:

 https://www.wired.com/story/europe-nuclear-power-plants/

https://www.dw.com/en/nuclear-power-are-energy-price-hikes-prompting-a-german-rethink/a-59594913

https://www.aljazeera.com/news/2022/1/3/germany-calls-nuclear-power-dangerous-rejects-eu-plan