The Washington Post reports that aid agencies estimate that in the eight months since the Taliban entered Kabul, more than 120,000 children have been "exchanged for financial reasons" by their families.

Rising poverty has forced desperate families to take unimaginable actions, the paper said.
 For example, young Afghan children have been forced to work and families have married their daughters as children to receive "lions"
 The United Nations World Food Program estimates that some 18 million people in Afghanistan will need immediate food assistance in June.

An estimated 10 million Afghan children are in urgent need of food, according to a report released by the Child Protection Fund on its website on Monday.
Afghanistan's economic structure collapsed as the Taliban entered Kabul in August 2021.

The Washington Post said in a statement that international aid agencies were seeking more funding to continue providing assistance to the Afghan people.

Many Western countries, meanwhile, are reluctant to allocate more aid to Afghanistan.
 "Without recognizing the Taliban, we are cooperating with Afghanistan and trying to do our best to help," the UNDP chief said at a World Economic Forum review of Afghanistan last week. Build a population that is increasingly frustrated.

Following the fall of Kabul, the United States froze $ 7 billion in assets of the Central Bank of Afghanistan.

In February, President Biden signed an executive order formally allocating about $ 3.5 billion of Afghanistan's foreign reserves frozen by the US Treasury Department to help "the welfare of the Afghan people" and the rest. Provided to the families of 9/11 victims.

The US government has not yet determined how this budget will be transferred to Afghanistan.

One of the main concerns of donor countries in Afghanistan is to provide financial assistance to the Taliban and other extremist groups in Afghanistan.

For the past two decades, Afghanistan has been backed by foreign aid from the West, especially the United States, but it has been cut off as the Taliban take control of Afghanistan and the West refuses to recognize the Taliban. A large part of the Afghan government's budget was financed by foreign aid.