Following his heartbreaking personal loss, the whole football world rallied around him, and the tributes continued on Saturday at Emirates Stadium.

In the seventh minute of their Premier League match on Saturday, Arsenal and Manchester United fans came together to show their solidarity for Cristiano Ronaldo following the death of his newborn son.

Fans from both sides cheered the Portugal international, who was playing for the first time since admitting he and his partner, Georgia Rodriguez, had lost their lives in the tragic accident.

After Liverpool and United supporters applauded in the seventh minute of their Premier League match on Tuesday, this is the second time such a homage has occurred.

Both sets of supporters at Emirates Stadium stood to applaud Ronaldo and his family, paying a great homage to him and his family.

Arsenal supporters applauded Ronaldo on as he walked onto the pitch for his pre-match warm-up, despite the Portuguese star missing the Liverpool encounter due to compassionate leave.

In the home and away ends, there were also banners showing support for Ronaldo, and he was spotted thanking the Arsenal supporters for their homage.

On Monday evening, he and Rodriguez shared their heartbreaking news on Instagram. She was pregnant, and the couple was expecting twins, but only the baby girl lived tragically.

Following the Liverpool match, Ronaldo returned to training on Wednesday and expressed his gratitude to both sets of supporters for their support.

Ronaldo and Rodriguez's other children, Cristiano Junior, Eva, Mateo, and Alana Martina, released the first photo of their newborn girl on Thursday.

"Home is where the heart is. Finally, Gio and our baby girl have joined us. "He expressed himself on social media.

"We'd like to express our gratitude to everyone for their nice comments and gestures. Your support is crucial, and we can all sense your love and respect for our family. It's now time to be grateful for the new life we've brought into the world.