Gross Domestic Product (GDP), historically has been a standard measure of economic activity. It records the value of all final goods and services produced within the country during a given period, net of the value of inputs. GDP data requires estimations and extrapolations because not all economic activities can be completely captured. In recent time, night-time radiance, traced from outer space through satellites, has increasingly emerged as a pertinent measure for changes in economic activities irrespective of their sources ( formal or informal 
sectors). It is also a more significant representation of economic activities in manufacturing and services,
than agriculture. Farmers have lower access to electricity, and primarily use it for pumping water that doesn't generate nightlights. Ideally, an increase in luminosity eyes the essence of a country's 
developmental and its macro-economic indicators, for 
example - access to electricity, reliable power supply, increased electricity consumption, increased income level, industrial production, money and credit growth.
Night lights has become a reasonable indicator for 
GDP at the national and sub-national levels, with a very 
high level of spatial granularity. It does not suffer from questions around data quality or manipulation, and its errors are considered to be free of political bias. Ahead of assembly elections in Goa, we present nightlights data to enable a constituency-level comparison for the economic activities over six years,
covering 2015 to 2020.

This report presents data and visualisations for the state of Goa, and provides pertinent insights from illustrations on the level and 
change in economic activity for all of its 40 assembly constituencies.
The three nightlight variables highlighted here include total radiance, change in total number 
of lit pixels and percentage change in lit pixels.
An increasing number of lit pixels suggests that economic activity is expanding to new areas, as previously dark pixels begin to show radiance in satellite images. On the other hand, total radiance denotes increasing economic activity without saying anything 
about its distribution over space. Looking at both total radiance and per cent of lit pixels provides a better picture of economic activity