Beyoncé uploaded a picture of her three children and thanked them for inspiring her "Renaissance" hours before she intended to "unleash the wiggle" with her dance-inspired album.

Beyoncé pays tribute to everyone who assisted her in creating her new album on the day before the modern Renaissance began. Beyoncé, 40, released a statement and a picture of her cuddling her 5-year-old twins, Rumi and Blue Ivy, 10, and herself on her website on Thursday (July 28). She also said, "I want to send a special thank you to Rumi, Sir, and Blue for providing me the space, creativity, and inspiration." And a particular thanks to my lovely spouse and inspiration, Jay-Z, who kept me alive through those late nights in the studio.

“A big thank you to my uncle Jonny,” continued Beyoncé. “He was my godmother and the first person to expose me to a lot of the music and culture that serve as inspiration for this album. Thank you to all of the pioneers who originate culture, to all of the fallen angels whose contributions have gone unseen for far too long. This is a celebration for you. Thank you to my Parkwood Crew, my Slab, Dream, and all of the talented producers involved. Mama, I Luhhh you. To my father, my O.G., my first teacher: you inspire me in ever move that I make. I love you.”

Beyoncé reiterated the message she gave while revealing the Lady Godiva-like cover image earlier in the message. This CD was created over the course of the last three epidemic years and is the first act of a "three-act project." She described it as "a moment to be motionless, but also a time I found to be the most creative. "It was a dangerous moment for the world, and making this record gave me a place to escape and dream. In a period when not much else was moving, it gave me the freedom and adventure I needed. My goal was to provide a secure environment free from criticism, perfectionism . a place where one may yell, let off steam, and experience liberation. It was a lovely journey of discovery.

Twitter