By Nisha Qureshi 

The advent of the Covid-19 pandemic shook up the A&M industry and everything went for a toss. Brands reduced spending on advertising, salaries were reduced, platforms and agencies had to work for half the rates and thousands of people were sacked across the board.

Now with pandemic-induced challenges settling down, the Indian adex growing, offices re-opening, new brand launches, an increased number of ads across platforms, and markets opening up, it’s now safe to say that business has returned to the usual for most in the advertising and marketing industry. But print and digital news publishers still continue to struggle to meet the day-to-day cash flow cycle with payments not coming in time. 

A top news publisher told BestMediaInfo.com that among the several other challenges that are obstructing the way for business to resume, as usual, one of the biggest they are facing is payments not being made in time. He said, “The business has started flowing in. Hardly, do our inventories go vacant. But the problem that arose during the Covid-19 period related to delayed payments remains the same. Earlier, we understood that everything has gone haywire, but now it’s high time that we too start getting payments in time. We also appeal to agencies and brands to clear our pending dues.”

In fact, BestMediaInfo.com came to know that INS (Indian Newspaper Society) has issued notices of “disaccreditation” to a number of advertising agencies for long-pending dues owed to publishers, according to sources.

Another expert in the news publishing business alleged that while the payments for physical print spaces are coming in on time, payments for digital ad space are getting delayed.

The print industry is already going through a tough phase. The global shortages, because of the ongoing Russia-Ukraine war and the lockdown in Shanghai, have almost frozen the supply chains of the newsprint. Not only is there a shortage of printing paper but also a looming coal shortage which might have an impact on domestic production. Therefore, extremely delayed payments and non-payment issues are only adding to the woes.

Read the full story here:- https://bestmediainfo.com/2022/05/delayed-payments-add-to-the-woes-of-news-publishers