IFA 2022, Europe’s biggest tech show, is back and this time it’s happening in person after a hiatus of two years due to the Covid-19 pandemic. The show runs from Friday, September 2 through Tuesday, September 6 with keynotes, events and announcements all day and night. However, the conference actually starts today, with many companies intended to offer a preview of what’s about to come next. LG, Samsung, Asus, and Nokia are usually the big names that showcase the latest consumer devices and appliances.
In recent years, the focus has shifted. Many big companies have opted to make announcements on their own stages. That being said, tech shows like IFA are still relevant. Asus, for instance, used IFA 2022 to launch its first laptop with a foldable screen. LG, meanwhile, will be showcasing the world’s largest OLED TV as well as a 42-inch OLED TV with a bendable display. 
JBL has introduced a new pair of earbuds that come with the world's first smart charging case. The JBL Tour Pro 2 buds ship with a charging case packing a 1.45-inch LED touchscreen display. The small display let users know about the remaining battery life for each earbud as well as they can notifications without having to reach for their phone. The buds feature 10mm dynamic drivers and connect wirelessly via Bluetooth 5.3. They also feature active noise cancellation. 
LG has showcased what appears to be a bendable display that curves to improve immersion or rest flat for viewing shows or movies. The LG OLED Flex has a 42-inch screen with support for 4K visuals and a 120Hz refresh rate. 
At IFA 2022, Asus finally gave us concrete details about the company’s first foldable laptop. Dubbed, the Zenbook 17 Fold OLED, the device features a  massive 17.3-inch OLED foldable display which can be used in multiple orientations. Under the hood, an Intel i7-1250U processor can be found accompanied by 16GB of RAM, an Intel Iris XE GPU, and a 1TB M.2 NVMe PCIe 4.0 SSD. It will also come with Windows 11 preinstalled by default. The Zenbook 17 Fold OLED was first unveiled in January at CES 2022 in Las Vegas. 