As an academic, philosopher, and statesman, Dr Sarvapelli Radhakrishnan was one of the most recognized and influential Indian thinkers in academic circles in the 20th century. 

Radhakrishnan’s extensive knowledge of the Western philosophical traditions coupled with ancient Indian philosophy earned him the reputation of being a bridge-builder between India and the West.

The years following Indian independence mark Radhakrishnan’s growing involvement in Indian political as well as international affairs. Radhakrishnan had been actively involved in the newly incorporated UNESCO, serving on its Executive Board as well as leading the Indian delegation from 1946-1951. He also served for the two years immediately following India’s independence as a member of the Indian Constituent Assembly.

With the Report of the Universities Commission finished in 1949, Radhakrishnan was appointed by then Prime Minister Jawaharlal Nehru as Indian Ambassador to Moscow, an office he held until 1952. The opportunity for Radhakrishnan to put into exercise his philosophical-political ideals came with his election to the Rajya Sabha, in which he served as India’s first Vice-President (1952-1962). He became one of the first recipients of the Bharat Ratna in 1954 along with Rajagopalachari and CV Raman and then went on to become the second president of India (1962-1967).

As President of India, he accepted only ₹ 2,500 out of his salary of ₹ 10,000 and donated the remaining amount to the PM Relief Fund.

Radhakrishnan saw during his presidency an increasing need for world unity and universal fellowship. At the moment of his taking up the post of Vice-President, the Korean war was already in full swing. Political tensions with China in the early 60s and the subsequent Chinese invasion in '62, followed by the hostilities between India and Pakistan on the western front dominated Radhakrishnan’s presidency.

Whatever position he held, whether as a President or Vice President, essentially remained a teacher all his life. When he became President, some of his students and friends requested him to allow them to celebrate his birthday, on September 5. He replied, “It would be my proud privilege if September 5th is observed as Teachers’ Day" since then 5th Sept has been celebrated as Teachers’ Day in India.