The story dates back to the time of India’s freedom when the Malcha Mahal had lost all its glory. Begum Wilayat Mahal found a unique way to protest.

Malcha Mahal was occupied by 2 members of a royal family of Oudh, Prince Riaz, and Princess Sakina, children of Princess Wilayat Mahal, the Begum of Oudh.

Princess Wilayat Mahal was the granddaughter of Nawab Wajid Ali Shah of Oudh. When Nawab Wajid Ali deposed and his property was seized by Britishers, Begum started to fight with the Indian Government for their property to have that back which is currently shaped into a pharma research center.


She along with her two children and a dog confined herself to the VIP lounge of Railway Station in Delhi for 9 years.. That’s when the Government decided to give them the Malcha Mahal back. But sadly, by that time the Malcha Mahal didn’t provide all the luxuries that it used to. This was surely not less than a ghostly place for a human being full of lizards, snakes, and other insects.

Who possibly can live without water, electricity, and bats all around? The family had also cut themselves off from the outer world. This type of living condition would have an adverse effect on anyone.


The children couldn’t bury her body and lived with her for 10 days. People had a belief that the Mahal had hidden treasures and hence, attacked it and even dug the Begum’s grave. Her children then burned their mother’s body.

Current Situation of Malcha Mahal

Apparently, the entrance is guarded by two dogs and a revolver which was permitted to the remaining royals.

Prince Riaz has been given a firearm and its permit to shoot in self-assurance by the Lt. Legislative leader of Delhi, since 1990, after they were assaulted. Because of fear and torment, the royal siblings haven’t talked with anyone from the outside for years.

The unfortunate death of the Begum gives way to the mystery around the place.

The place carries a board saying intruders shall be gunned down.

Malcha Mahal is known as undoubtedly a mysterious and one of the Most Haunted Places In India, But the truth is that what happened to them is the real terror.