It’s not easy to find out the accurate number of casualties – the dead and injured – in a battlefield, especially when it comes to active combatants. Since time immemorial, both sides at war try to cover up the real number of their own casualties while inflating the number of fatalities of the enemy.

But despite this mutual concoction of casualty figures, the death toll of Russian soldiers has been phenomenal in the first four weeks of the Ukraine war. Russian official estimates say 498 of its soldiers have died so far in the combat, while Ukraine claims Russia has lost over 13,000 combatants. US intelligence estimates say the number is at least 7,000 which is more than the total death toll of Russian soldiers – 5,500 – in 10 years of brutal war in Chechnya during 1999 and 2009. It’s quite surprising how Russia lost so many soldiers in just a month of the Ukraine war.  

More surprising is the fact that among the dead are four generals, including Major General Vitaly Gerasimov, a much-awarded commander who was involved in Chechnyan and Crimean wars and also Russia’s military operation in Syria. Out of the four deaths Putin acknowledged the death of only one -- Maj. Gen. Andrei Kolesnikov, a commander from Russia’s eastern military district. According to a report in the New York Times, US military officials say most of the generals have died because they had been using unsecured phones and it was not difficult for the Ukrainian army to intercept their calls and kill them based on the geolocation of their phones.

It’s also striking why so many generals had been there in the battlefront. Did they arrive to boost morale of soldiers – mostly conscripts – who were unwittingly pushed into the theatre of the war? Or, did the Russians under-estimate Ukrainian resistance, taking this as a light operation?  

Apparently, Putin has put a key intelligence official under house arrest who he believes has failed to gather accurate information on the status of Ukraine’s possible resistance. 

READ MORE: 

https://www.nytimes.com/2022/03/16/us/politics/russia-troop-deaths.html

https://www.economist.com/graphic-detail/2022/03/17/russian-soldiers-appear-to-be-dying-in-ukraine-at-a-remarkably-high-rate

https://fortune.com/2022/03/14/ukraine-russia-death-tolls-misinformation-find-your-own/