During our innings, Sanju bowled 3 over giving away 9 runs. Saly was unheard off by that time, but playing for SBT B means, there is something special about this boy. We did all permutations and combinations, analysed he was a wicket keeper last year, didn't show any prospect as batsman and now trying his luck in bowling. What is the magic this boy is hiding and SBT management is expecting? Is it a wrong investment for SBT? These were some of the questions and concerns shared among our team members during our batting innings.

After lunch, it was our turn to defend 249. We were playing SBT B almost regularly every year and knew the batting style, shorts, weakness and strength of their major players. Because of it we were quite upbeat too. 

Personally, I couldn't play that day, since aI was in Bangalore at that time due to official assignment. But collected score updates etc every 30 minutes over the phone and kept track of the match. During drinks break after first 15 overs, I was told SBT B had scored 70 runs with a loss of one wicket and they need 180 runs from 30 overs (180 balls). In between we dropped a catch, but team was upbeat we could ran through their middle order and it is the young 14 yr kid came to bat at first down. 

We thought there is a problem with their batting line-up, since some senior players are not there. I didn't know what happened after that, whether it was over confidence from our bowling side or lack lusture fielding or the exceptional quality of batting. At the end of 30th over, during the break of second drinks, with a shock I heard, SBT B requires only 75 more runs to win in 15 overs with 9 wickets in hand. 

Sanju Samson, 14 year kid, started hitting all over the ground, and was just unstoppable. Our club was more known as a better bowling department with top class spinners in Pradeep, who would be the leading wicket taker in most seasons with a better economy rate.
Part 3
https://www.pixstory.com/story/finally-our-sanju-is-indias-sanju-concluded1658779789/119049