Another controversial news that Kangana Ranut has been a part of it this time the actress land in trouble as the actress was planning to sue the filmfare for inviting her to the award show happening later this month. 
The controversy started when the filmfare decided to nominate the actress this year for her movie thalavii. Filmfare shared a statement on Sunday on their official site , they damned the unwarranted accusations made by Kangana Ranaut. They say "It pain us at Filmfare, today to be subjected to unwarranted malicious remarks by Ms kangana Ranaut. For over six decades, Filmfare awards and Filmfare, at large has been a platform that celebrates and honours talent in the flim industry impartially and with utmost transparency. It is our strong ethic that has helped us in gaining the trust of our audiences and the film industry . As in customary during the awards , Filmfare's Executive editor informed Ms. Ranaut about her nomination in the best actor in a leading role, female category and asked for her address to send across the invitation, " It Continued with the statement " The exact message was as follows 'hello kangana heartiest congratulations on your nomination for the Filmfare award. It'll be a pleasure to have you there, do confirm your presence at the award ceremony on August 30 at jio world convention centre at BKC, mumbai. It'll help us plot your seats. P. S. Please send us your residential address so that we can send you the invite. Regards. '
Things started getting bitter when kangana shared a story on Instagram in which she criticized Filmfare and decided to sue them. She wrote " I've banned unethical corrupt and totally unfair practice like flimfare since 2014,but since I have been getting many calls from them for attending their award function this year as they want to give me award for Thalavii... I am shocked to know that they are still nominating me. It is beneath my dignity, work ethics and value system to encourage such corrupt practices in anyway, that is why I have decided to sue flimfare ... Thanks. "