‌UP - Azad Samaj Party chief Chandrashekhar Azad announced a coalition of 35 smaller political parties for the upcoming Uttar Pradesh elections.

The alliance will be named as the Samajik Parivartan Morcha.  

‌ An ally of the BJP in Uttar Pradesh, The Apna Dal (Sonelal) has fielded a Muslim candidate for the first time since 2014 for state Assembly polls, reported ANI.

 The candidate, Haider Ali Khan, will contest the Suar seat in western Uttar Pradesh’s Rampur district.

‌Punjab - Former Chief Minister Amarinder Singh declared the first list of his party Punjab Lok Congress candidates from 22 constituencies. 

Prominent figures like former captain of Indian hockey team Ajit Pal Singh has been biding from the Nakodar seat. Singh will contest the Patiala Urban seat.

‌BJP General Secretary Tarun Chugh said his strategy on the party is to nominate Sikh candidates on more than half of the total seats it will contest in the Punjab Assembly polls, reported PTI.

 From the alliance, he said that it is anticipated that most of its candidates will be from the Sikh community, especially farmers and members of the Other Backward Class.

‌Goa - The candidates of the Congress in Goa on took a pledge to remain faithful to the electorate and the party and will not defect. 

Senior leaders including P Chidambaram, Dinesh Gundu Rao, Girish Chodankar among others escorted the 34 candidates to the places of worship for the pledge as per the NDTV.

‌Manipur - Meghalaya Chief Minister and National People's Party president, Conrad Sangma along with Deputy Chief Minister Yumnam Joykumar Singh of Manipur and State president L Jayantakumar Singh has virtually disclosed the manifesto (Action Document 2022) for the upcoming Manipur Assembly elections. 

‌Chief Minister N Biren Singh asserted that the Bharatiya Janata Party would form the government in Manipur with more than a two-third majority and added that the prominent leadership of BJP will take the call on the party's chief minister's face for the state Assembly elections.

Uttarakhand : ‌Uttarakhand Congress releases another list of 11 candidates for Uttarakhand polls.

‌The Congress is all set to launch its poll campaign for Uttarakhand. Chhattisgarh chief minister Bhupesh Baghel will headline the campaign.