By Kaswar Klasra

ISLAMABAD: Pakistan has restored the centuries-old iconic Jain Temple situated in the heart of Lahore, Pakistan’s ancient city and the provincial capital of its Punjab province, officials told NewsDrum.

"Reconstruction of the Jain Temple has been done while decoration is underway. The temple will be opened to the public in two weeks," Sarfraz Abbas, the deputy secretary of the Evacuee Trust Property Board told NewsDrum over the telephone from Lahore.

Situated in the center of Anarkali Bazar, Lahore’s iconic Bazar which used to be the center of art and culture during the Mughal era, the Jain temple had to face the Muslim’s wrath in the wake of the attack on India’s famous Babri mosque in 1991. Unfortunately, Jain Temple was one of the dozen temples in Pakistan which came under attack by a Muslim mob in 1992. As much as 90 percent of the Jain temple was demolished following the attack while its main canopy was the structure that escaped the horror and wrath of Pakistani Muslims who had demolished a number of temples just to take revenge on the Babri mosque.

As a matter of fact, no Jains live in Pakistan today as the majority of the ancient Jain community had left Pakistan soon after the partition except for a few families who had stayed in Pakistan. However, remaining had been living under constant threat of growing radicalisation in Pakistan. Soon after Muslim’s attacks on various temples across Pakistan in 1992, the remaining families of Jains immediately left Pakistan and settled in the Europe and USA, officials said.

For decades, the majority of the temples which had been demolished in 1991, were never restored. Despite repeated calls made by the human rights activists and concerned communities, governments in Pakistan didn’t pay attention to the demolished temples until the Chief Justice of Pakistan issued directives to the government in December 2021 to restore the temples including the Jain temple according to the original design.

Read the full story here:- https://www.newsdrum.in/international/hindu-temple-in-pakistan-reconstruction-of-jain-temple-in-lahore-completes-decoration-underway-47585.html