Mental Health Day (Noun): “A day that an employee takes off from work in order to relieve stress or renew vitality” –Merriam Webster dictionary.

While the term ‘Mental Health Day’ can feel like a relatively recent buzzword, its first known use stretches all the way back to 1971. But what does it mean in practice?

“There is some debate over what constitutes a mental health day and how best to spend it. Just as there isn’t a precise definition for adults, there isn’t a consensus on what it means for children, either. Typically, it is a day to rest, recalibrate and take a break from your regular routine,” New York Times reports.

For some, a mental health day can be interpreted as a break from school, to make time for joy. But for others, the need for mental health days can point to a deeper need for getting mental health care.

A Harris Poll of 1,500 teenagers found that 78 percent believed schools should have mental health days to let students take care of themselves. More than half of teenagers said that a mental health break from school or work would benefit their mental health, according to a survey by advocacy organization Mental Health America.

One survey by the Pew Research Center found that 70 percent of American teens view anxiety and depression as a major problem among those their age in the communities they live.

Over the last decade, the state of youth’s mental health has been worsening and suicide is the second leading cause of death among individuals between the ages of 10 and 34, according to the CDC.

The importance of mental health days from school has been getting highlighted recently – in the past few years, Arizona, Colorado, Connecticut,  Illinois, Maine, Nevada, Oregon and Virginia, have passed legislation to let students take some days off school for their mental health.

While mental health days can be a great way to let youth decompress, are they a quick-fix for deeper social and institutional wounds that aren't being addressed? What’s your opinion? Dare to dissent by challenging this post!