Adventurous Times spent in the Diaras and the Jungles along the Narayani


As promised earlier, I am now ready to narrate further some more stories from my tenure as SP, Bagaha. As the series would continue further with your esteemed feedback, readers still unfamiliar with the plot, terrain and topography of Bagaha, where I enjoyed some of the most adventurous times of my life as a young Superintendent of Police, are advised to read my earlier blog at http://copinbihar.blogspot.in/2016/12/the-december-of-2006.html. I had then mentioned that the stories from the initial days in Bagaha would soon be continued. In fact upon being forced by repeated requests from various anxious readers to narrate the complete story, I had to send a link containing a complete brief of the happenings during my stint in Bagaha which was available at http://copinbihar.blogspot.in/2016/08/a-story-written-in-december-2012-from.html. But for now, as the stories would sequentially continue, I would be regularly sharing some of my adventurous experiences in the pristine jungles and wild diaras of Bagaha. Here I am recollecting some out of many adventurous tales which were experienced between December, 2006 and June, 2007.

Incredible Bagaha !


To start with, I must make the reader recollect that Bagaha is still home to one of the best surviving forests in northern India, and here one is sure to encounter a diversity of wildlife seldom seen elsewhere. But, these beautiful forests of Bihar were hardly popular as a tourist destination in the days when rickety roads coupled with the activities of ‘dasyu’ (meaning dacoit) criminal gangs and Maoists made the rare chance visitor tremble with fear. Anyone visiting then and moving without any police escort or local knowledge must have surely felt that one was more likely to encounter dreaded creatures hailing from the dasyu gangs also often called as ‘Jungle parties’, which engaged themselves in kidnapping victims for ransom, rather than those seemingly innocent and beautiful ones living in the wild in their own natural territory. 

To be continued...