As the Jan. 6 committee reconvened for another round of hearings, the question remains: Will the Justice Department indict former President Donald Trump for his role in the assault on the U.S. Capitol?

In public testimony, the evidence is mounting against Trump.

While Attorney General Merrick Garland has previously said he remains committed to holding all Jan. 6 perpetrators, at any level, legally accountable, it is also true that no former U.S. president has ever been criminally charged.

The Department of Justice rarely goes after politicians and, instead, according to former Attorney General Bill Barr, sticks to “meat and potatoes” crimes.

These include witness tampering, perjury and obstruction of justice.

Yet in the light of bombshell testimony on June 28, 2022, from former White House aide Cassidy Hutchinson, pressure on Garland to do something about Trump’s direct involvement in the failed attempt to overturn the 2020 election is mounting from House Democrats.

As scholars of liberal democracy, elections and how the rule of law enables state development, we can’t help but notice that the former president may be joining the ranks of erstwhile leaders from other countries who were once thought to be untouchable but who ultimately faced justice.

As revealed in the committee’s public proceedings, Trump could face new legal liabilities, and mounting concerns among major GOP figures about his potential crimes are beginning to hurt his political future.

Trump’s potential crimes
There is now far more evidence than what was presented during Trump’s second impeachment trial of potential crimes during the waning days of his tenure.

The evidence not only points to Trump’s failure to perform his constitutional duties on Jan. 6, 2021, but also includes some potential meat-and-potatoes offenses like intimidation of government officials with the threat of force and obstruction of Congress.

According to Hutchinson, Trump knew that his supporters were armed on Jan. 6 as he engaged in fiery speech that incited the MAGA crowd to march to the Capital.

Read more: https://theconversation.com/with-trumps-role-on-jan-6-becoming-clearer-and-potentially-criminal-gop-voters-are-starting-to-look-at-different-options-18610