Recent evidence showing that Virginia Thomas, wife of U.S. Supreme Court Justice Clarence Thomas, sent at least 29 text messages to former White House Chief of Staff Mark Meadows urging him to help overturn the 2020 election has reignited a long-simmering debate about judicial ethics and the nation’s highest court.

Fair and impartial judges are essential to the health and legitimacy of the judicial system and are a critical component of the system of government established in the U.S. Constitution.

In the past, both liberal and conservative justices’ actions have raised questions about ethical standards for the court. Justice Stephen Breyer’s wife owned personal stock in a company involved in a Supreme Court case, for example, and former Justice Antonin Scalia went duck hunting with then-Vice President Dick Cheney in 2003 when the court was considering a case focused on Cheney.

Legal scholars and pundits have debated whether given justices should have voluntarily removed themselves from particular cases given potential conflicts of interest.

As a Supreme Court scholar, I think it is important to recognize that there is no formal code of conduct guiding the work of the Supreme Court, which contributes to a lack of clarity regarding the ethical boundaries for justices.

A code of ethics for some judges, not all
Unlike Supreme Court justices, other federal judges follow a code of conduct developed by the Judicial Conference, a government policymaking group for lower federal courts.

The code outlines ethical principles for judges, saying that they should remain independent and abstain from political activity, like giving money to a political candidate.

The code also has a process for reviewing if and when judges should not participate in a case because of a conflict of interest.

But the Judicial Conference does not have any authority over the Supreme Court.

So, as Chief Justice John Roberts has pointed out, the code does not apply to the Supreme Court – and does not “adequately answer some of the ethical considerations.

Read more: https://theconversation.com/confidence-in-the-supreme-court-is-declining-but-there-is-no-easy-way-to-oversee-justices-and-their-politics-187233