Katie Zalem is an English Footballer, who plays and is captain of one of the most prestigious clubs in England - Manchester United. She has also been capped for England.

She is a midfielder by position and has previously played for Liverpool and Juventus. She could have joined Man Utd way back in 2013, but United didn’t have any professional setup. In 2017, she moved to Juventus. She joined Manchester United in 2018 for their inaugural season in the FA Women's Championship.  


She has scored 12 goals in 3 seasons for Manchester United. She has a total of 38 goals. This season, she has only 5 goals to her name, having an xG of 2.6.

Zelem is dangerous from dead-ball situations as she ranks 96 percentile from the penalty spot and 96 percentile from shots from free kicks.

Zelem ranks quite high for long passes that she has completed and passes that she tried but didn’t go to the required destination. She ranks 94 percentile in successful long passes and 98 percentile in passes that she had attempted. Katie is ahead of other players by a long mile.

Katie is head and shoulders ahead of other players. She leaves other players behind by a huge margin. She ranks quite high in passes which she had made from dead-balls. Katie ranks 98 percentile in both corner kicks and freekicks and 93 percentile from dead-balls(throw-ins, Freekicks, Corner Kicks, Goalkicks, and Kickoffs).
Katie ranks 97 percentile in deadballs which lead to shots attempts and 98 percentile in deadball passes which leads to goals attempt.
Katie had the most touches down the middle third of the pitch as she ranks 93 percentile in that regard. She is able to dribble past players at ease as she ranks 93 percentile for dribble success rate she had completed.
Coming to her defensive attributes, she ranks quite high in goal-line clearances with a 97 percentile, 90 percentile in tackling dribblers who tried to dribble past her, and 87 percentile for shots which she blocked before they posed danger for the goalkeeper.