Graham Potter has signed a five-year contract with Chelsea FC. Replicating the glory of his predecessor, who led the blues to European success, will be a tough ask. But the former Brighton manager has the spark to ignite Chelsea back to life. And also lay the foundations for the new owner to establish his empire. 
The sudden decision to sack Tuchel is astounding but not new, as the blues have a history of pulling the trigger on anyone (irrespective of their name or fame) if the results start going against the club. Sticking to the club's history, Boehly, after backing Tuchel in the transfer market, showed him the door when the standards at the club began to drop. 
Some statements suggested that the German had lost the dressing room. And that could be the reason behind his sacking. On the pitch, Chelsea never looked like their usual self. There was no fight or grit amongst the players who had conquered Europe in 20/21. The loss to Zagreb was the final nail in the coffin, which had been laid a long time ago.
Chelsea and Tuchel were on the downhill, whereas Brighton and Potter were on the up. The Englishman had the seagulls playing flamboyant football, which was much adored on the south coast. Having lost two of his best players in the summer, Potter has succeeded in winning four of his six encounters this season. And the seagulls sit at 4th in the Premier League table. 
Graham Potter is one of the most charismatic managers coming out of England. The praises being showered on the former Brighton manager were long overdue. Potter's journey to the elite level will be a fascinating one. After years of mediocrity, we get to witness an Englishman going toe to toe with the greatest minds in football. 
The appointment of Potter is merited, as the work he has done at Brighton with limited resources speaks volumes about the man. The Englishman will also be reunited with his former employee, Cucurella. The left back was a different animal under Potter, and hence Chelsea opened the checkbook for him. 
Good luck on your new endeavor, Potter.
