Cardio cases have been high during the last decade and if we look into our families or friends, people with heart problems are becoming more. 

Now according to Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), atrial fibrillation which is also known as AF or Afib is the most common type of treated heart arrhythmia. 

The reports from 2019 mentions about Afib as being reported with 183,321 on the death certificates and was a death cause in 26,535 of deaths. 

So in a new research that was published in the Journ of the American Medical Association (JAMA) fimds about specific genes that are present among people who are younger than 66 and who can develop the condition known as early onset atrial fibrillation (EOAF). 

“How I really became interested in studying this group,” study author M. Benjamin Shoemaker, MD, explained in an interview with JAMA CardiologyTrusted Source. “Was that almost 20 years ago, the first case reports and case series began emerging where families with a strong history of atrial fibrillation were found to have rare variants in genes that we know are associated with traditional inherited cardiomyopathy syndromes.” 

“These other syndromes can be really serious causing heart failure and sudden death,” he continued. 

Genes strongly associated with the condition 

There were 1,293 participants included in the study who were with Afib diagnosed before the age of 66 and they underwent whole-genome sequencing. 

10 percent of the participants were found with rare genetic variants. 


While the study was in its progress 17 of them passed away in the next 10 years on average. The mortality among patients who were having the most prevalent genes with disease-associated variants was at 26 percent. 

“The findings suggest that rare variants in cardiomyopathy and arrhythmia genes may be associated with increased risk of mortality among patients with early-onset AF, especially those diagnosed at a younger age,” the study authors wrote. 

Genetic testing may give an important insight into Afib risk for patients that are diagnosed with EOAF, especially those who are at younger age. 

Sources - Healthline