Ferencvaros and Crvena Zvezda will be up against each other on Matchday 04 of the UEFA Europa League. Ferencvaros are on the top spot in the points table in Group H of the UEFA Europa League 2022-23 while Crvena Zvezda sit at the bottom spot in the points table.
Ferencvaros have played some brilliant football this year in their pursuit of getting their hands on the UEFA Europa League. They have played 3 games in the European competition so far and have won on all three occasions.
Crvena Zvzeda, on the other hand, have been a major disappointment for their fans with the performances they have displayed in the Europa League this season. In the 3 games that they have played so far in the European competition, they have won a game and lost on a couple of occasions.
Ferencvaros vs Crvena Zvezda Match Details
Match: Ferencvaros vs Crvena Zvezda
Date and Time: 14th October, 08:00 pm UK (13/10), 12:30 am IST
Venue: Groupama Arena
Ferencvaros vs Crvena Zvezda Probable Playing XI
Ferencvaros: Denes Dibusz; Eldar Civic, Adnan Kovacevic, Samy Mmaee, Henry Wingo; Aissa Laidouni, Balint Vecsei; Adama Traore, Xavier Mercier, Kristoffer Zechariassen; Franck Boli
Crvena Zvezda: Milan Borjan; Milan Rodic, Nemanja Milunovic, Aleksandar Dragovic, Strahinja Erakovic; Mirko Ivanic, Kings Kangwa, Guelor Kanga, Osman Bukari; Aleksandar Katai, Aleksandar Pesic
Ferencvaros vs Crvena Zvezda Probable Winners
Ferencvaros have been spitting fire against all their opponents in the European competition this season and have won their latest fixture against Zvezda away from home. They will be in front of their home fans in this game, and hence, we expect them to win their 4th game of the season.
Prediction: Ferencvaros 2-0 Crvena Zvezda
Ferencvaros vs Crvena Zvezda Live Stream
Ferencvaros vs Crvena Zvezda will be televised on the Sony Sports Network in India. Indian Fans can live-stream the match on the Sony LIV app. In Hungary, fans can tune in to MTVA and RTL for the live telecast and live streaming of the UEFA Europa League matches.