As I've already mentioned that I'm from Anantapur, Andhra Pradesh. I would like to let you know the famous places that are in it. 
Penukonda: 
Penukonda is referred to as Ghangari in local inscriptions. The place is rich in temples as you will find that it has 365 temples dedicated to Lord Hanuman. It was constructed by Vira Virupanna Udaiyar of Vijayanagar. It is famous for its architectural brilliance with stunning sculptures.
Thimmama Marrimanu:
Amidst man made wonders, which show the excellence of human brains, we find that Anantapur houses one of the excellent wonders of bestowed by nature on this land. It is a banyan tree, which is the biggest in South India. The tree’s branches spread across 5 acres of land. It was named after a woman called Thimmamma, who committed sati after her husband’s death. The belief that childless couple will be blessed with children on visiting this place makes it a top tourist attraction.
Hemavathi:
Hemavathi is an ancient place, which has historic significance. It was the capital of Pallava kings in the 9th and 10th centuries. Hemavathi Fort, one of the ancient forts in Andhra Pradesh is ruined but some of the temples stand proof of the excellence of artisanship of the Chola and the Pallava era.
Lepakshi is situated 110 km from Anantapur. If you have an eye for architecture and historical places, you need to visit Lepakshi. The place has 108 Shiva temples. Lord Veerabhadhra Temple belonging to the 16th century displays fine architectural skills. The intricately carved pillars and rock sculptures speak volumes of architectural brilliance possessed by the artisans. The murals on the temple’s ceilings are amazing. It is indeed an architect’s delight.
Gooty Fort: 
Ravadurg Gooty Fort belonging to 7th century is a stunning example of the architectural excellence of the past. Shell shaped Gooty fort is one amongst the oldest hill forts in Andhra Pradesh. The fort, located at an altitude of 300 meters houses 15 forts inside and rightly earns the name ‘King of Forts’. 
Also, there are other places to visit such as Dharmavaram, Iskcon temple, Aluri Kona, etc. 