On 19 September 2022, the Supreme Court referred concerns relating to the death penalty to a five-judge Constitution bench, which will now interpret and finalise the law that decides if a convict gets a death sentence or life imprisonment. 
Many crimes, such as murder, child rape and kidnapping for ransom, are punishable with the death penalty, but it is not automatically imposed once someone is held guilty. Every crime punishable with the death penalty also has life imprisonment as the alternate punishment. 
This is because the law is also interested in understanding the person who is being punished rather than responding with vengeance to the crime. This interest comes from the acknowledgement that individual decisions are also influenced by external factors, including society.  (here and here) 
Even otherwise, it is not difficult to see why something as serious as the choice between life and death, cannot be left completely to the subjective preference of individual judges.
While holding that the death penalty did not violate constitutional values, Bachan Singh vs State of Punjab (1980) first attempted to lay down the law to guide judges in making this decision. However, in the 42 since, a host of issues have emerged: 
– Does the death penalty law, both in theory and practice, allow the life of the offender to be meaningfully presentend and considered by judges at sentencing?
– Does the law ensure that all offenders have an equal chance of being considered for reform and a life sentence? 
– Is the law sound enough to ensure that individual preferences or biases of judges don’t influence their decision? 
The Constitution bench is looking to revisit these fundamental questions. 
This should be of interest especially to those who find comfort in retaining the death penalty because experienced judicial minds decide who should live or die.
Life Imprisonment Or Death: How Judges Must Choose
The law makes it easier for judges to choose a life sentence over the death penalty. 
Read more - https://article-14.com/post/the-supreme-court-s-tough-options-in-interpreting-the-law-that-decides-between-life-or-death-633ce68d96956