Vaginal discharge is a normal and regular cleaning function of the vagina. It’s the vagina’s way of showing that it is doing its job! In fact experiencing vaginal discharge is an indication of good vaginal health. This vaginal discharge is composed of fluids and cells secreted/released by the uterus, vagina or cervix. Vaginal secretions serve the function of cleaning and lubricating the vagina. It also protects the vagina from any sorts of irritation and vaginal infections, and helps to preserve the health of vaginal tissues. Hence, that’s how vaginal discharge helps your vagina to cleanse itself and maintain an infection free environment there! 

Each type of vaginal discharge indicates a different meaning. The colour, consistency, odour and texture of a normal vaginal discharge may vary depending upon what reproductive phase you are in. Vaginal discharge before periods may look a bit whitish. While the same may look clear and sticky like mucus when you are likely to be ovulating. You may notice increased vaginal discharge during pregnancy. This is completely normal and healthy as well, as it protects the womb by keeping infections at bay. According to the NHS of UK, women who are pregnant, sexually active and on hormonal birth control can experience more vaginal discharge. Also, if you are engaging in high levels of physical activity or if you are sexually aroused, you may notice an increase in vaginal discharge. Also, your vaginal discharge may change over the course of life.

However, not all vaginal discharge is normal. Sometimes, vaginal discharge can be a sign of an infection or an issue which requires medical treatment. If your vaginal discharge is accompanied by pain and vaginal itching it could be symptoms of Vaginitis. Yellow or green coloured discharge could indicate a Sexually Transmitted Infection (STI). If you find that your discharge is white or yellowish but clumpy, like cottage cheese, with fishy odour and itching, it may be a yeast infection. Finally , abnormal vaginal discharge could also be a sign of  Pelvic Inflammatory Disease (PID). The right kinds of antibiotics and antifungal can easily help you to tackle the above issues.



Sources:
 1-https://my.clevelandclinic.org/health/symptoms/4719-vaginal-discharge#possible-causes

2-https://www.healthline.com/health/dizziness#causes

3-https://my.clevelandclinic.org/health/diseases/9129-pelvic-inflammatory-disease-pid#management-and-treatment