Adama Traore is finally a Catalan. The Spanish international has rejected the chance to join Tottenham Hotspur to return to Barcelona on a loan deal for the rest of the season. The Catalan giants also have the option to buy him for €30 million.


The interest from Barcelona comes in the wake of the rampant uncertainties surrounding the future of Ousmane Dembele. 


With Dembele’s future at Barcelona not set in stone, the Catalan giants have been forced into the market to make a second attacking reinforcement after Ferran Torres. And Traore has emerged as a viable target for Barcelona, with the club quickly reaching an agreement to secure his services on a loan deal for the remainder of the season.


Traore, who is not as prolific as Dembele, his directness will add a different dimension to Barca’s gameplay. 


Traore, though has not been prolific with contributions to Midlands club,he has still been an important member of the squad. He contributed 8 goals and 14 assists with xG of 10.96 in 160 appearances.

His dribbling is enhanced with extreme speed and top notch strength. He forces his way to the opposition final third with his strength. This is where his ball control ability reduces the risk of losing the ball.His accelerated offensive runs often leave his opponents to the ground.

From the above figure, we can see that he poses danger while carrying the ball into the danger zone. He ranks 2.95 per 90 with 90 percentile in carrying the ball into the final third and he ranks 2.27 per 90 with 95 percentile in carrying the ball into the penalty area.

He ranks 9.75 in progressive carries having 94 percentile.

Adama primarily plays as a left winger, but Depay also injured with muscular problem, Xavi would like to deploy him as a center- Forward or he and Ferran Torres can exchange roles and vice versa.


Barcelona got Adama back after almost 7 years. Hopefully his contributions will be enough for  Barca to secure the Champions League spot and win the Europa league title