The Trophy Tour for the 131st edition of the historic Durand Cup football tournament was kickstarted in Goa, the home of the defending champions FC Goa, after they were unveiled in a grand ceremony by Rohan Khaunte, the Minister of Goa for Tourism, Information Technology, Printing and Stationery.

Also present at the function, was Lt Gen K. K. Repswal, SM, VSM, Chief of Staff, Eastern Command and Chairman Durand Organising Committee.

Goa, which is the home of the Durand Cup defending champions FC Goa, was the final stop of a five-city Trophy Tour, a first in the tournament’s century-long existence. The Trophy Tour was flagged off from Kolkata on July 19, 2022, travelling to Guwahati, Imphal and Jaipur before arriving in the State. After a two-day tour in Goa, the trophies return to Kolkata, the venue of the Grand Finale.

Post the unveiling, the Trophies were put on display at the Bambolim camp of the Indian Army and an exhibition football game was also played at the FC Goa Club ground in the Salvador do Mundo Panchayat.

The Durand Cup ontinue their tour of Goa on August 3, with Trophy displays planned at the Dhempe College in Miramar, the MES College in Vasco, at the INS Hansa, the Panjim Church as well as the Mall de Goa in Porvorim.

They are then set to return to Kolkata on August 4, 2022.

This year, the Durand Cup has grown to 20 teams from 16 last year and all 11 teams of the Indian Super League (ISL) have confirmed participation. Five teams from the I-League and four Services teams will also be vying for the coveted honours.

FC Goa are in Group A alongside Mohammedan SC, Bengaluru FC, Jamshedpur FC and Indian Air Force.

There will be a total of 47 games in the Durand Cup this year, with West Bengal hosting Group A and Group B matches, while Imphal and Guwahati will host Group C and Group D games respectively. All the seven knockout games will be held across the three venues in West Bengal.

The Tournament will culminate with the Grand Finale scheduled on September 18, 2022, at VYBK.