To create a series perfect for binge watching, there has to be suspense or even characters that draw the audience to keep the audience hooked to the T.V screen here is the list of series' that I've watched many times and almost always binged.

Breaking Bad
A show that that is pure cinema, compared to a Shakespearean Tragedy by many, in this series we see Walter White becoming the embodiment of evil from just a nice school teacher. With every watch you notice the little changes in him and how he breaks bad. It never feels rushed, its just perfect. Bryan Cranston plays the role of Walter to perfection. This series created by Vince Gilligan, is definitely one to binge watch.

Game of Thrones
The series inspired by the novels or George R.R. Martin is must watch and it will leave you scrambling to watch more and more. The suspense goes through the roof as the battle for the Iron Throne gets twists upon twists. No character is safe in this series and it just gets brutal. 

La Casa de Papel
Popularly known as Money Heist, this is one journey that everyone needs to set on. Its a fast paced series which makes it more easy to binge watcha and its just keeps on getting more and more crazy. Every season is just brilliant and you're always left wanting for more. 

Hannibal
Well for people who've read the novels or seen the movies know what kind of serial killer we're dealing with here. He's just perfect at whatever he does, be it counselling ( yes, he's a therapist), cooking or killing. Mads Mikkelssen embodies this narcissist with a magnificence.

True Detective Season One
Matthew McConaughey and Woody Harrelson are the detective leads of this series for season one. This is one that will make you question everything. Matthew plays his character with a certain melancholia, he goes off on some existentialist monologues. The story chronicles how the serial killer "The Yellow King" was caught and we also get to see the complicated relationship of the two detectives. It's a very interesting watch.