Party Dozen

July 15, Oxford Art Factory

This is going to come as a bit of a challenge, but I’d recommend you see Party Dozen play live whether you’ve heard their recordings or not. Not just because the Sydney duo’s otherworldly recordings are somewhat bonkers – which isn’t much of a surprise when you consider they comprise a drummer and a saxophonist (who also sings “into” her sax) playing psychedelic noise rock – but because they’re among the most memorable, intense acts I’ve seen in the past decade.

Liam Gallagher

July 23, Aware Super Theatre

For someone whose career looked stuffed once his more talented big brother took his Oasis ball and buggered off, Liam Gallagher has made a pretty good fist of things.

Sure, there have been missteps – I don’t think you’ll be hearing many Beady Eye songs at this show – but the Gallagher who was always especially blessed in the vocal and charisma departments has improved as a songwriter over the years.

Yeah Yeah Yeahs

July 24, Hordern Pavilion

The pandemic proved especially frustrating for two more acts recommended here when it came to Splendour. Gorillaz and the Strokes (as well as Tyler, the Creator) were each booked to headline a night at the 2020 event, each crossed their fingers through consequent failed attempts at rescheduling, and each will this month get to honour their very long-held commitment.

Gorillaz

July 26, Qudos Bank Arena

The novelty of cartoon-pop crew Gorillaz should not have lasted more than a couple of years. Yet here we are, a near-unbelievable 21 years on from their fantastic eponymous debut, as keen as ever to see where their musical linchpin – indie pretty boy-turned-experimental pop boundary pusher Damon Albarn – is heading next.

The Strokes

July 28-29, Hordern Pavilion

Here’s the big one, for me, anyway. By 2001, broadly speaking, guitar music had become either dull, with the increasing popularity of insipid dad-rock, or unlistenable, with the rise of so many largely awful rap-metal bands. 

Enter the Strokes, an impossibly cool gang of five from NYC, with a debut album in Is This It that had it all. Retro but fresh, snarling but sensitive, sleazy but sexy.