The National Rifle Association had begun its convention on 27th May-few days after the elementary school shooting that shocked the nation. It had also witnessed the strong presence of politicians like Donald Trump.

NRA has been obstructing repeated efforts to tighten firearm laws to attempt to curb violence around the country. While the NRA’s power has taken a hit in recent years, financial filings and lobbying disclosures show the group still has the means to try to impact gun policy talks in the coming weeks - along with the midterm elections that will decide which party controls Congress next year.

A majority, 58 per cent of respondents, believe the NRA has too much influence on American politics. The NRA along with all major corporations and rich individuals have far too much say in our government and it needs to stop. The NRA was once relatively bipartisan in its donations and lobbying efforts. However, in recent years, it has become inextricably associated with the Republican party. 

According to data analysed by OpenSecrets, which monitors political spending, 98 of the top 100 Congressional beneficiaries of NRA money since 1989 are Republicans. Democrats have so far failed to convince a single senior Republican to back their calls for tighter gun laws following the Texas shootings. The association has spent opulently on Republican presidential candidates, including spending over $31mn in support of Trump’s presidential candidacy in 2016.
Recently, however, the organisation has begun to struggle financially and has had to rein in its political spending. According to the NRA’s tax filings, its revenues have fallen nearly a quarter since 2016 to $282mn, while its membership has dropped from nearly 6mn to just under 4.9mn. It spent only $17mn supporting Trump’s re-election in 2020. But that hasn’t halted the gun rights organization from funding the campaigns of political candidates. With this strong influence, how can America implement strict gun laws? 

Source: Financial Times, OpenSecrets