Congress needs a bonding personality as President who understands and respects the feelings of congress leaders from different generations. Congress needs practical politics now and not rhetorics in social media and other platforms. And Mallikarjuna Kharge is the best against Dr Tharoor for practical politics. 
Shashi Tharoor
I am proud to say Dr Shashi Tharoor is my representative to the Indian Parliament. Moreover, I was a fellow of All India Professional Congress, Thiruvananthapuram Chapter, of which Tharoor is (was) the National Chairman. I am very much happy with the way he worked as MP and about his interventions in parliamentary debates. We have some interactions over email too on various issues and his response was highly appreciable. Not as disrespect, even though I started reading his newspaper articles in The Hindu Sunday supplement from school days, did not read a single book yet which he had written till now. Most of us know the personal works, oratory skills of Dr Tharoor, which we all agree he is the best. 
And we all agree he is a good legislator as well. But most people don't know Dr Tharoor as a political leader, and this is what makes him incapable for AICC Presidency. He had put Congress party on defensive several times through his comments, acts, not following party line, and being outspoken and through his work and deeds. He became a candidate in 2009 through the same system in which he is right now part of. It is the high command decision that made his candidature and instruction given to PCC and DCC leaders which ensured his campaign is on track and ultimately a handsome victory, which he personally certified the toughest election he faced till now. The success in election continued in 2014 and 2019 too and various factors including his personality contributed to it. 
 Electoral success doesn't make one a political leader to hold main office of the party. In his first term itself his deeds in IPL, comments like cattle class, Sunanda issue etc put party and common workers in difficult situation. He had to resign ministership which was offered over seniors in party. (Continued)
