Pixstory, a pioneer in creating safer social media, and @WomeninSoccer, an organization looking to empower women and historically marginalized individuals on and off the field, have teamed up to create a safe space on social media for people working in soccer. The collaboration will facilitate thoughtful conversations without the toxicity associated with online sports discourse.
Sport has a big role in leading the narrative on social change, and Pixstory lies at the heart of this intersection as a social media app, where its community is fostered through celebrated differences. Through Women in Soccer’s dedicated account on Pixstory, women and other marginalized peoples working in soccer will be empowered to express themselves without worrying about hate that proliferates through mainstream social media apps.
The alliance will unlock valuable opportunities for both organizations. Pixstory will support selected events of Women in Soccer, where the latter will conduct dedicated discussions on equity in soccer, allyship, and the importance of safe spaces for connecting. 
“Safe, judgment-free spaces for telling stories and sharing experiences is what we want more of, especially for people historically marginalized. Pixstory is helping to create a space like this with their new platform,” shares Rachel LaSala, WIS Managing Director. “One of our core purposes [at WIS] is to uplift people working in the beautiful game who have been disadvantaged and help give them a chance to be seen, heard and supported. WIS is guided by the values of action and grit so we continue to work with innovative organizations like Pixstory that are challenging the status quo. It's already been a pleasure working with Pixstory at the EPF Equality Summit 2022 and we look forward to the future collaborations that will help our members feel seen–stay tuned!" 
“We are truly delighted to join hands with Women in Soccer. Together with Women in Soccer’s continuous efforts to connect, inspire and empower women on and off the field, we are sure that in unison, we can create a behavioral change and reduce abuse and hate speech,” said Appu Esthose Suresh, Founder of Pixstory.