The Challenges to Nation-Building
in Afghanistan continues....
Strong leaders have controlled tribes by nominating leaders, keeping 
chiefly members as hostages, establishing marriage alliances between 
chiefly and royal families, executing dissidents or fostering dissension 
between rivals for leadership or between neighbouring tribes. The state 
has used three modes of persuation such as tribalism, Islam and 
nationalism in order to gain legitimacy. Since ‘tribalisation of the state and 
the abuse of power by the power holders are inevitable in Afghanistan 
what needs to be done in the post Taleban setup is to evaluate the 
strengths and weaknesses of the emergent and existing local and regional 
self-governing communities. Hence, the crucial issue is whether to 
support a militarily strong central government or favour a kind of central 
government that would be willing to help strengthen local selfgovernance and incorporate all such communities into a powerful pyramid of national governance. Hence the logical solution seemed to be 
the formation of a central government based on the principles of elections 
and power sharing among all interest groups in the country (tribal, ethnolinguistic, sectarian and gender) on an equitable basis- that is by applying 
the Islamic principles of Shura or consultative rule.
A strong argument in favour of incorporating the tremendous 
strengths of a re-emergent civil society into a new community rule-based 
state structure has been given by M. Nazif Shahrani. He considers this as 
the only feasible road to face the national challenges. He also argues that a 
constitutional guarantee of the rights of community self-governance at 
the local, district, provincial, and regional levels throughout the country, 
allowing local communities to run their own local civil, judicial, security 
and educational administrations and also to maintain law and order with the help of a community police force was necessary. 
To be continued...