After 23 years, the oldest democratic political organisation which spearheaded Indian National Movement, Indian National Congress (INC) is preparing for internal elections to elect it's All India Congress Committee President. A position which resonates more often with the ideology inherited during the national movement and its character. Due to its nationwide presence, AICC President represents the aspirations of 130 crore people from various socio-religious-cultural-economic backgrounds.

Congress had its fall and downfall in its history with splits, difference of opinion, splint groups etc in its history. The present election is significant at a time when INC is facing various challenges from inside and outside. In spite of these challenges, the leadership requires appreciation for taking the decision to conduct organisational elections, initiate debates within the party and elect its President.

Public participation

The interesting observation here is not only INC leaders, activists, but the general public, opposition party leaders and activists, and the media have all started commenting on Congress Presidentship and candidates which shows how important is Indian National Congress for them. It is not common to see the general public and opposition commenting on who shall be president of BJP, Sarsanghchalak of RSS, Secretary of CPM etc. This shows how much Congress is integrated with the DNA of Indians and India. This election has aroused an interest in all who follow Indian Politics and big thumbs up to Rahul Gandhi who had insisted on a non-Nehru-Gandhi family member as AICC President, after stepping down after 2019 election results.

The candidates

Coming to candidates, the lineup is ready with respected Mallikarjun Kharge and dearest Dr Shashi Tharoor having a direct contest. As usual, Dr Tharoor has already started his high voltage campaign with a big push on digital and social media and road shows. He could do it since he had preplanned about the participate in the contest. Whereas Mallikarjun Kharge, an old school politician, who grew up to the national politics step by step and not through any marketing techniques, is depending on his party colleagues with many of whom he has decades of association and a long history of his political contributions, leadership, administrative and governance skills..