By Poonam Agarwal

Since the BJP-led government introduced the electoral bonds scheme in 2017, controversies have surrounded it. The party and the government continue to face criticism for making the process of political party funding non-transparent in the world’s largest democracy.

Some of the most important institutions in India, like the Election Commission of India (ECI), Reserve Bank of India (RBI) along with the State Bank of India (SBI), have since raised questions about the opacity of the scheme.


The former Finance Minister, late Arun Jaitley, introduced the scheme claiming the bonds would keep the donor’s identity anonymous and channel political funding through banking routes. But both these claims were eventually debunked. There have been numerous reports and exposes in the media on how this scheme affects our elections and democracy.
Electoral bonds, which look like promissory notes, carry a unique alphanumeric code that is not visible to the naked eye and only under Ultra Violet (UV) light. The ECI objected to the electoral bonds scheme in 2017 in a letter to the Law Ministry and filed an affidavit in 2019 in the Supreme Court arguing that it makes political funding murky, potentially allowing black money and foreign funding into the Indian political ecosystem.

Taking forward the EC’s argument, the former Reserve Bank of India (RBI) Governor Urjit Patel wrote two letters to the Finance Ministry in September 2017, strongly objecting to the issuance of bonds in a “scrip form”, citing a risk of money laundering.

Patel’s letter accessed through Right to Information (RTI) states: “The issue of EBs (electoral bonds) in scrip (physical) form is fraught with serious risk of money laundering… If RBI agrees to issue EBs in scrip form, it will be accused of acquiescing in the process in spite of the risk that it would almost inevitably result in money laundering.”

Read the full story here:- https://theprobe.in/electoral-bonds-transparency-in-political-party-funding-is-essential-in-the-interest-of-democracy/