
Four-time NBA champion. Eight-time All-NBA. Two-time scoring champ. Two-time NBA MVP, including the only unanimous selection in league history. All-time leader in 3-pointers made. For any other player, this resumé alone would merit significant consideration as the greatest to ever play basketball.
But for whatever reason, fans, analysts -- and especially former players -- have consistently neglected to include Golden State Warriors guard Stephen Curry alongside the usual GOAT candidates of Michael Jordan, LeBron James, Kareem Abdul-Jabbar and Wilt Chamberlain.
Whether it's because of his cherubic visage, the fact that the majority of his points come from a shot that didn't exist in the NBA until 1979, or simply the mind-warping reality that he plays unlike any athlete who came before him, Curry has traditionally been seen as an anomaly -- a freak with a God-given, superhuman pension for throwing a ball into a hoop, whose immense success is purely the result of rule changes that limit the brutal physicality that would have relegated him to mediocre status in any preceding era.
O'Neal was discussing the upcoming NBA season with his "Inside the NBA" co-star Kenny Smith along with his podcast co-hosts, Nischelle Turner and Spice Adams, when the subject of the Western Conference came up. Smith argued that the West could be as powerful as it's ever been, and O'Neal rebutted by saying that the Warriors should be the outright favorites.
"Nobody's gonna beat the best player in the world, Steph Curry," O'Neal said.
When pressed about his statement, O'Neal didn't hesitate to double down, saying "Yeah, by far. Hell yeah." He then enumerated his reasons for categorizing Curry at the top of the list of current NBA superstars.
"The real ones are recognized by the championships that you have," O'Neal said. "Nobody plays better than Steph Curry. He's a tough shot taker, tough shot maker. I like where he's brought his career. I love "Rocky" type stories. ... Steph wasn't highly recruited. So, to be able to work that hard and be the best shooter and one of the best players in the league, he gets my props for that. I love that kid."
