The US Supreme Court is set to reverse the landmark 1973 Roe v. Wade judgment that legalised abortion in the country, according to a report in Politico.

Politico scooped the first draft of the court’s majority opinion written by Justice Samuel Alito and supported by four other conservative justices — Clarence Thomas, Neil Gorsuch, Brett Kavanaugh and Amy Coney Barrett — in “Mississippi case”.

Three Democratic-appointed justices — Stephen Breyer, Sonia Sotomayor, and Elena Kagan — were working on one or more dissents, Politico reported, quoting an unnamed source.

It was unclear which way the opinion of the ninth justice, Chief Justice John Roberts, would go, but a possible dissent by him would still leave the conservative block of the court with a 5-4 majority.

What is Roe vs Wade?

The 1969 case is sometimes, referred to simply as “Roe”, the listed name of the 22-year-old plaintiff, Norma McCorvey. ‘Wade’ was the defendant Henry Wade, the Dallas County (Texas) district attorney at the time.

Ms McCorvey was pregnant with her third child when she filed the case, and claimed that she had been raped. But the case was rejected and she was forced to give birth.

In 1973 her appeal made it to the US Supreme Court, where her case was heard alongside that of a 20-year-old Georgia woman, Sandra Bensing.

They argued that abortion laws in Texas and Georgia went against the US Constitution because they infringed a woman's right to privacy.

By a vote of 7-2, the court justices ruled that governments lacked the power to prohibit abortions.

They judged that a woman's right to terminate her pregnancy was protected by the US constitution.

What's the current challenge to Roe v Wade?

The Supreme Court is considering a case which challenges Mississippi's ban on abortion after 15 weeks.

If the court rules in favour of Mississippi, it will effectively end the constitutional right to an abortion, and make abortion rights a decision for individual states once again. 

If the Supreme Court strikes down the 1973 ruling, then abortion could be banned in almost half of US states.