Remember the 25th minute goal in the Argentina versus Mexico second round match in the 2010 World Cup?  Carlos Tevez was offside by yards, but the referee didn’t disallow the goal. The replay on the big screen inside the stadium confirmed the offside and fight broke in the technical bench followed by the entire Mexican team surrounding the referee. But the decision wasn’t changed. Equally shocking was the decision of the referee in the South Korea-Spain encounter in the 2002 World Cup quarter-finals.  South Korea got the benefit of the doubt as Egyptian Referee Gamal Al-Ghandour disallowed two legal Spanish goals and his linesmen judged one Spanish attack after another to be offside, as South Korea went on to win 5-3 on penalties to reach the semi-finals. Shortly afterward, the referee was forced to retire.
Now, all these things are set to come to an end. Hopefully. The Qatar World Cup will have an interesting and new feature within it’s official match ball “Al Rihla”. The feature will be an updated VAR (Video Assistant Referee) system which is called semi-automated offside technology. The new technology will replace the VAR system which was introduced in the 2018 World Cup in Russia. The authorities believe that the new system will help the match official make more accurate decisions with the new technology. “VAR has already had a very positive impact on football and we can see that the number of major mistakes has already been dramatically reduced. We expect that semi-automated offside technology can take us a step further,” said FIFA Referees Committee Chairman Pierluigi Collina in a statement. The new system will have 12 cameras within the stadium which will track the movement and position of both the ball and players. The ball is with a motion sensor inside which will provide the information on the player’s position at the time when the ball is kicked. As per ESPN, the old VAR system used to 70 second to make an official offside decision. But now, the decision will be made in only 25 seconds.