Cristiano Ronaldo has dropped the biggest bombshell of this transfer window, by informing the United hierarchy that he wants to leave Old Trafford. The Portuguese superstar who was also named United's Player of the Year for 2022 had earlier reported that he was looking forward to working with the new manager, Ten Hag. But United's lack of action in the transfer window has left the No. 7 frustrated. 

United endured one of their worst campaigns in 20/21, and Ronaldo wanted the club to show a bit more ambition this term, inorder to avoid the nightmares of last season. But United's drawn out negotiations with various players and the clubs inability to add to their arsenal has left Ronaldo with no option but to leave. 

The lack of Champions League football could also be one the major reasons for Ronaldo's departure. The former Balon'D Or winner was United's top scorer last term, and is still one of the deadliest marksman in world football, irrespective of his age. 

At 37, Ronaldo could perhaps land himself one last big paycheck at a top European club, given his stature and ability. Ronaldo has handed in a transfer request at a time, where top European clubs like, Chelsea, Bayern, PSG, Barcelona, etc, are all in the lookout for a prolific and proven number 9. And the Portuguese phenomenon has been linked to various clubs namely; Chelsea, Roma, Bayern, PSG, etc. 

Mancheter United, who are already struggling with making new additions to their squad, have been dealt a huge blow. The United hierarchy was keen on keeping and building a team around the Portuguese superstar. But with Ronaldo handing in a transfer request, the United board have to chalk up a new plan for next season. 

The Red Devils are already thin in the striking department and the departure of Ronaldo will leave United without an out an out number 9. And it also poses a new problem for the United board as they will have to halt all their other transfer activities and look for a replacement for the outgoing Ronaldo, in a market that is already short in terms of strikers.