An unbearable household created by a housemaid after her entry into Kim Dong-sik’s (Kim Jin-kyu) urban house – this could be the modest one-liner fits ‘The Housemaid’, the Korean movie considered a game changer in the industry.

What’s the new buzz on this widely acclaimed 1960 release is its proximity with Parasite, the 2020 Oscar winner, also a story of a domestic invasion by house servants. Comparing both, I feel  Kim Ki-young’s Housemaid terrified me more. Martin Scorsese’s remark on this film - ability to see danger in all of the human interactions – is precise. Im Sang-soo, another acclaimed South Korean director made a remake of Housemaid in 2010, which as per critics couldn’t retain the ‘tension’ in the original one.

Let’s get into Kim Dong-sik’s (Kim Jin-kyu) home. A constantly toiling wife on a stitching machine. Two kids. A naughty boy and a crippled girl. A two-storied house with many closet rooms. Lots of chores to do, which turns a spin for Mrs. Kim (Ju Jeung-ryu) pregnant with twins. Myung-Sook (Eun-shim Lee) then gets a maid-entry in.

A morally conscious piano teacher, Kim Dong-sik is a caring husband and a good father to his kids. He works too hard to fulfil the middle-class big life dream.

Myung-Sook is poor but rich in her devil mindset. She begins to scan the house and people. She was quite envious of everybody in. Kids were dubious about her manners and didn’t leave a chance to discriminate. The mister and mistress give her measured attention. It was a planned seduction when Kim was all alone in the house. She turns obsessed with her master and new status.

‘The Housemaid’ turns surreal from now. An unexpected abortion makes Myung-Sook a devil from a ruling pregnant maid from her master. Rest is a total Korean revenge drama unravelled in a claustrophobic household. Our heads start to whirl watching the characters and events climbing up and down the stairs. Nobody can go out, nobody can get in. How many die? How many survive?

Kim Ki-youn uses the fourth wall to explain the end, imagine, in 1960!