By Nisha Qureshi 

The OOH industry that was severely impacted by the pandemic is back in full swing. According to PwC’s Global Entertainment & Media Outlook 2022- 2026 report, India’s out-of-home (OOH) advertising market is demonstrating one of the strongest comebacks globally. It is predicted to grow at 12.57% CAGR to reach Rs 5,562 crore in 2026.

“In 2021 total OOH revenue was up to Rs 3,076 crore. The momentum of this rebound will carry over into 2022, and by year-end, the market will be at the value of Rs 4,084 crore,” said the report.

According to Aman Nanda, Chief Strategy Officer, Times OOH, they were doing well until 2021 December. This was then followed by the third wave in January and February where things slowed down. “However, from March, there is an extremely positive sentiment, travel, shopping, and offices reopening has positively impacted OOH. We were close to about 90% of pre-Covid business in June.”

“We are expecting a good recovery in Q2 of FY 2022-23. Even with rising Covid Cases in many parts of the country, the impact of the pandemic is now considerably reduced on people’s mobility. Businesses are now operating at normal level and the outlook on business in Q2 and for the rest of the year looks positive,” said Parimal Modi, CFO, Khushi Advertising Ideas.

Modi added that they are currently at 85-90% of their pre-Covid revenue levels and they are hopeful of achieving pre-Covid levels in this quarter alone.

"Dipankar Sanyal, CEO of Platinum Outdoor and MRP, said, “As per our estimates we are expecting OOH to grow by 36% over last year. In the last two years, we saw fewer categories being active and reduced spending as mobility reports showed consumer mobility skewed towards residential areas, pharmacy and healthcare and hypermarkets. But now mobility reports show normal dispersion towards relevant touchpoints, hence the reason for all categories to get active.”

Sanyal further said they have already reached pre-Covid levels and are expecting a healthier growth over 2019 this time."

Read the full story here:- https://bestmediainfo.com/2022/07/ooh-industry-eying-precovid-level-recovery-before-the-2022-festive-season