“Don’t be afraid to take on big challenges. They give the best rewards.”
-Spencer Christensen

Any initiative that works on transforming for the better is not without obstacles or challenges. Running a club is not easy, and the difficulties intensify when one has to deal with young minds still developing.

According to the founder of the club, Muthok Khongmawloh, maintaining children of different ages is very difficult. Children of varying dispositions require age-appropriate guidance to cater to their requirements. It is also hard for a handful of members to run a whole training centre receiving a massive volume of sports enthusiast youngsters. Running a training centre can’t just be a one-person show. 

The centre has also extended its activities to farming, trekking, and interactive nature activities, requiring just as much attention as football training. It is not possible for Muthok to solely manage everything because different batches of children need expert guidance at all times while they are training. 

Everybody can understand the football game, but only a few can teach it. This holds true for most sports activities. Coaches and expert trainers must be called to guide young children in their developmental stages. 

Besides the shortage of coaches in remote areas, trainees also require appropriate sports gear to help them with training. Acute shortages in funding and sponsorships often leave clubs like the Little Star Football Club with difficulties in conducting their operations. 

Here is a summary of the challenges Little Star FC faces and measures to tackle them:

1) Funding the club to recruit coaches
2) Sponsoring football kits and sports gear
3) Sharing and amplifying the Club’s initiative and cause

Little Star FC’s inner spirit gives it the strength to continue despite its challenges. The club needs some form of help to continue its operations and expand its outreach to more underprivileged children who often lack access to opportunities and little things that bring us so much joy.