Over a decade, Uttar Pradesh saw a 90% surge in incidents of police filing sedition cases on insistence of complainants, mostly Hindutva activists. Most such cases were filed after Yogi Adityanath became chief minister in 2017. Hindu groups say it is their duty to lodge police complaints against those who speak against the CM. In one case, a sedition charge worked to keep prospective opposition party candidates in jail through the local body elections. Across eight UP districts, we interviewed 31 men accused of sedition and found that all non-state complainants were Hindutva activists or sympathisers.

When Feroz Ahmad was brought to the police station in Nautanwa, close to the Indo-Nepal border in the eastern Uttar Pradesh (UP) district of Maharajganj, about 20 activists of the Hindu Yuva Vahini were already there. 

“They started chanting ‘Jai Shri Ram’ the moment they saw me,” Ahmad said. 

An electrician with a small shop in Nautanwa market, Ahmad, then 36, was arrested on 9 November 2018 and charged with sedition. Police accused him of forwarding a WhatsApp message, which the men of the Hindu Yuva Vahini, a right-wing organisation established and nurtured by UP chief minister Yogi Adityanath, claimed had hurt the religious sentiments of Hindus. 

“His intention is to incite communal riots in the country by hurting the religious sentiment of majority Hindus,” said the first information report (FIR),the starting point of a police investigation.“He wants to cause communal flare-up with the objective of destabilising the government and damaging the unity and integrity of the country.”

Ahmad remembered that the Hindu Yuva Vahini men had virtually dictated to the policeman sitting at a desk and writing the FIR the sections of Indian Penal Code, 1860, that were to be slapped on him. 


Narasingh Pandey, district president of the organisation and the formal complainant in the case, was at the helm. 

“I was scared as I saw Narasingh Pandey telling policemen what charges would be used against me,” Ahmad told Article 14. “I could clearly see matters slipping out of the  hands of the policemen.”

Read more- https://article-14.com/post/hindutva-groups-ordered-up-police-to-file-sedition-cases-and-yogi-s-police-obeyed--6201d68cc0bb7