We know the pattern Democrats will bring in a bill for gun control and republicans would reject it in the senate. This is the main cause of having no major gun control in federal law. We can guess the condition of states then. Asked if the legislative solution that Republicans would welcome involves red flag laws, background checks or mental health access, Mitch McConnell refused to offer any specifics. He only said that the goal is to "come up with a proposal, if possible, that’s crafted to meet this particular problem."

He also said he plans to keep in touch with Democrats and hopes that Congress can reach a deal that can "actually pass and become law rather than just scoring points back and forth." It is very much necessary that the republicans change their attitude towards gun control.

According to the Washington Post, Republicans began to worry that as conversations about other cultural issues changed nationally, their base would resent them for relenting on another major Republican identity issue. Congress also rejected a ban on assault weapons and high-capacity gun magazines.

Here are some instances when the republicans shut down the gun laws. 

After the killing of 58 at a music festival in Las Vegas in 2017, Congress failed to gain traction on a bump stock ban. (President Donald Trump, under a Justice Department rule, banned them in 2019.)

After the killing of 14 students and three staff members in Parkland, Florida, in 2018, Democrats again put forward several gun control bills, but Republicans in control of both the House and the Senate declined to take them up for a vote.

After the killing of 23 in a Walmart in El Paso, Texas, in 2019, Democrats in the House introduced several gun control bills, including one that would ban the sale of high-capacity magazines. The House passed what was considered the most significant gun control measure in decades, focused on expanding background checks; Republicans in the Senate did not take up the bill

This list goes on-Republicans feel little political pressure as elections favour them in many states-lets see what midterms bring on.