1.Flax Seeds Are Loaded With Nutrients: Flax seeds are good sources of many nutrients.Their health benefits are mainly due to their content of omega-3 fats, lignans and fiber.

2.Flax Seeds Are High in Omega-3 Fats: Flax seeds are a rich source of the omega-3 fatty acid ALA.Plant-based ALA fatty acids are proven to have heart health benefits and are linked to a lower risk of stroke.

3.Flax Seeds Are a Rich Source of Lignans, Which May Reduce Cancer Risk: Flax seeds contain a group of nutrients called lignans,which have powerful antioxidant and estrogen properties.They may help in preventing breast and prostate cancer, as well as other types of cancer.

4.Flax Seeds Are Rich in Dietary Fiber: With so much fiber packed in each tiny seed, adding flax seeds to your diet promotes regular bowel movements and can improve your digestive health.

5.Flax Seeds May Improve Cholesterol: The high fiber content of flax seeds can help lower cholesterol and may play an important role in improving heart health.

6.Flax Seeds May Lower Blood Pressure: Flax seeds have been proven to lower blood pressure and are especially helpful for those with high blood pressure.

7.They Contain High-Quality Protein: Flax seeds are a good source of plant-based protein and can be an alternative protein source for people who do not eat meat.

8.Flax Seeds May Help Control Blood Sugar: Flax seeds may lower blood sugar due to their insoluble fiber content.They can be a beneficial addition to the diet of people with diabetes.

9.Flax Seeds Keep Hunger at Bay, Which May Aid Weight Control: If you have the tendency to snack between meals, you might want to consider adding flax seeds to your beverage to stave off hunger pangs.Flax seeds keep you full for longer and may help you manage your weight by controlling your appetite.

10.Flax Seeds Can Be a Versatile Ingredient: There are a variety of recipes you can try. Adding them to water and drinking it as part of your daily fluid intake.Drizzling flaxseed oil as a dressing on salad. Sprinkling ground flax seeds over your hot or cold breakfast cereal