In 1994, Santosh Chaudhary’s father purchased three bighas of land, about three quarters of an acre in the central Indian state of Madhya Pradesh, with revenue from the garlic he had grown on one bigha. The crop had fetched him Rs 50 per kg.
Twenty-eight years later, in the last week of August 2022, the highest price Santosh could get for top quality garlic in the Indore mandi (market) was a fifth of what it did 28 years earlier: Rs 10 per kg
“Everything costs more now, many times more, than in my father’s time, whether it’s labour, fertiliser, pesticide, seeds,” a despondent Santosh, 35, told Article 14, preparing to dump a tractor-load of freshly harvested garlic in the nullah running through Pharaspur village in Sanwer tehsil. “I wouldn’t even recover the cost of transporting my harvest to the mandi.”   
On 23 August, a day after nearly 40 farm unions organised a symbolic demonstration at Delhi’s Jantar Mantar against the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) government reneging on promises made in December 2021 at the end of the 378-day farmers’ protest, a local activist captured Santosh on video standing near his 7-acre farm. Almost 800 km south of the protest in the national capital, his thoughts mirrored those of the agitating farmers. 
“Modiji said our income would double in 2022,” Santosh said, addressing the camera. “That hasn’t happened, but it’s definitely become zero.” Modi made this promise in 2016, reiterating it in 2018.
Two days earlier, the Samyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM), the federation of unions that steered the historic farmers’ stir on the fringes of Delhi from November 2020 to December 2021, ended a three-day protest in Lakhimpur Kheri in northern Uttar Pradesh (UP), demanding that cases against farm protestors be quashed. 
Four farmers are still in jail on murder charges in relation to a violent incident in October 2021. They also demanded that a law guaranteeing minimum support price (MSP) for farm commodities be enacted. 
Read more - https://article-14.com/post/why-india-s-stressed-farmers-have-restarted-protests-modi-repealed-laws-but-his-grand-promise-has-failed-63155e7a21c00