The Russia-Ukraine crisis has hit the sporting world hard and the worst affected is definitely football. Contrary to popular belief the soccer related issues have only complicated matters concerning World Cup and UEFA- run tournaments, an insignificant football nation like India too have found themselves in a spot of bother. On March 26, India were set to play Belarus in a friendly at Bahrain, but the match now stands cancelled because of FIFA ban on Russia and Belarus. The match was important for India as they have been drawn to play the Asian Cup qualifiers in June and India’s Croatian coach Igor Stimac was looking forward to the friendly tie to give a final shape to his squad. If the ban on Russia and Belarus has to some extent eased Poland, Sweden or Czech Republic’s job in the World Cup qualifiers, then it certainly has come as a disadvantage for India.  
Not every sporting body in the world has come down as hardly as FIFA on Russia and Belarus. The International Tennis Federation (ITF) cracked down on the Russian and Belarusian tennis federations, barring the countries from ITF membership and team competition. But players are still allowed to compete. Swimming’s international governing body (FINA) said athletes from Russia and Belarus will be able to compete as neutral athletes from neutral teams. “Until further notice, no athlete or Aquatics official from Russia or Belarus be allowed to take part under the name of Russia or Belarus. Russian or Belarusian nationals, be it as individuals or teams, should be accepted only as neutral athletes or neutral teams,” FINA said. But then, ITF and FINA have the advantage of running sporting events where the athletes often compete on individual basis, unlike football, which is a team game. The most interesting sanction, however, has come from World Taekwondo. It has stripped Russian President Vladimir Putin of his black belt status. It said that Putin’s attacks on the eastern European nation go against the organization’s motto – “Peace is More Precious than Triumph.” Putin’s status as honorary president and ambassador for the International Judo Federation has also been also suspended.