Bastoni’s main position is a central defender. He can play both as right center back and left center back.

In 110 matches he played, he has 4 goals to his name and 6 assists. 

Tactical Analysis of Alessandaro Bastoni

The key strength of Bastoni is his reading of the game and the way he positions himself. 

Often anticipating danger and attempting to deal with it. Occasionally a little rash, but the Italian makes the coach’s decision to drop him difficult with his committed style. 

A left-footer, Bastoni can occupy the central or left-hand side position of the back 3.

 Quick acceleration over short distances is a key asset for Bastoni and often leads to winning key challenges and interceptions.
He ranks 92 percentile in the pressures applied at the defensive attacking third. He ranks 1.16 per 90. 
 

Passing and Attacking Ability

Whilst tackling and defensive positioning is key for a modern-day center-half, astute passing is also vital. Teams need confidence in their defenders to add to the attack, through quick passing and switching of play. Bastoni’s defensive reading of the game and understanding of player positioning translates to his passing. Often spotting teammates in open space and finding passes across and through the pitch.

Bastoni ranks quite high in progressing with the ball. He ranks 3.70 per 90 in pass progression and 5.61 per 90, in carrying the ball to the opponent’s net. 

Bastoni ranks 91 percentile in assisting the ball which can lead to probable shots.

Bastoni ranks high in short passes completed and attempted with 96 percentile each.

Bastoni ranks 96 percentile in completed live ball passes that lead to a shot and 94 percentile in live ball passes eventually leading to goal. 

So there was a match between Inter and Lazio, in which Bastoni scored a goal.

Bastoni scored a wonderful goal from outside the 18 yards. Considering him being a defender, It was a beautiful goal.Bastoni’s 25-yard drive nestled in the Lazio goal’s bottom corner. He had 1 assist to his name too. He had 3 shots in total.

Link for the article:

https://link.medium.com/iiUd4jSqsnb