CHEMISTRY OF ATTRACTION: What our teachers don't teach
By Sangeeth Sebastian
#VVOX My father was a chemistry professor. One thing I wish he taught me was the chemistry of attraction.
Among the scores of useless equations, I had to mug up, it was one equation that would have served some purpose. Because in life, you have to negotiate attraction, more frequently, than any other damn thing you will learn.
Very few realise this, which is why most people struggle to maintain ‘exclusivity’ in a relationship, even when they claim monogamy as their ideal relationship status.
In marriage, most of us enter into an unspoken agreement to remain ‘exclusive.’ But attraction is like a magnet. Chances are high that you are inevitably going to be drawn to someone or the other—whether you like it or not.
Of course, there are strategies to kill this attraction towards the ‘other’—think about the shame and repercussions of getting caught/ending a relationship or the complications of untangling from a joint EMI, and of course, children.
Why take so much risk, when it’s safer to stay castrated?
I know this because that’s exactly how I approached my own relationships before I decided to study sex. I didn’t realise at that point in my life that there are things you need to discuss
and establish, prior to getting into a relationship, or that there are other relationship models.
An education that doesn't teach crucial life skills is good only to bolster the ego and vanity of a few teachers. 
People go back to their alma mater, not to meet teachers, but to relive nostalgia, no matter how uncomfortable that truth is. Of course, there are exceptions. Exceptional teachers can be counted on your fingers. This is truer now than at any time when you don’t even need a teacher to provide knowledge.
Teachers are at the risk of becoming irrelevant. The sooner they realise this and change, the more number of teachers days we will get to celebrate in future.
#teachersday #teachersday2022
(The writer is the founder of VVOX, a platform with a mission to eradicate sexual shame.) 