14 Traditional Italian Dishes

Italian appetizers, entrees, and desserts vary between regions, but all Italian cuisine follows the same philosophy: simple recipes with fresh ingredients. Here are 14 traditional dishes from around Italy.

Risotto Alla Milanese. Brought to Sicily by the Moors in the thirteenth century, rice is mostly grown in the fertile lands of northern Italy’s Po Valley. Carnaroli or Arborio rice is sautéed with onions in butter, then simmered in saffron-flavored broth and white wine, and topped with parmesan cheese.

Polenta. Polenta is stone-ground corn that is whisked into boiling water or broth, usually in a copper pot, until thick. A classic polenta has butter, black pepper, and parmesan mixed in. Learn how to make Chef Thomas Keller's creamy polenta recipe here.

Lasagna. In this classic dish from Naples, lasagne noodles are layered with tomato or meat sauce, and ricotta cheese, topped with mozzarella cheese and baked.

Ravioli. Ravioli is a type of pasta ripiena—stuffed pasta. They are square or round cuts of pasta wrapped around a savory filling, like ricotta cheese with herbs, and served with sauce.

Osso buco. This dish from Milan features veal shanks braised in a red-wine reduction with vegetables. It is topped with a gremolata—a seasoning mixture, of lemon zest, garlic, and parsley. Anchovies can be added, too. Osso buco is often served with risotto alla Milanese.

Arancini. These Sicilian rice balls are made by rolling cooked risotto mixed with butter and parmesan. The balls are dipped in flour, egg, and breadcrumbs, and fried in olive oil until they are golden. They resemble little oranges or “arancini” in Italian.

Ribollita. This Tuscan stew was created when servants would clear the plates of their masters and cook the leftovers in boiling water. Ribollita, which means re-boiled, is made with cannellini beans and hearty vegetables and thickened with stale bread.

Spaghetti Alla Carbonara. This dish from Rome is simply cooked spaghetti tossed into a hot pan with guanciale (pork cheek) or pancetta. A mix of egg, parmesan, and black pepper is poured into the hot pasta.

To be continued.....