he first week of the 5th Rashtriya POSHAN Maah 2022 has celebrated enthusiastically and more than 11000 activities have been conducted with approx 3.5 Lakh participations have been observed by the Nodal Department i.e. Women & Child Development in convergence with all the line departments. With the same zeal, various activities have been conducted in all the 450 Anganwadi Centres. The most noticed is the Fancy dress competition was organised at mouli colony Composite AWB among children. Children dressed up as different healthy fruits and sang poems to encourage other children to eat healthy and colourful fruits and vegetables. Another notable activity was Quiz competition on Nutrition and Health organised in Anganwadi Centers at Butrela among the beneficiaries of ICDS & POSHAN Abhiyaan. Further the special awareness talk was also conducted by FSSAI on food adulteration.
 
Further, a talk show namely “POSHAN Pe Charcha” broadcasted on National Channel i.e “Doordharshan”. In which, Mr Vivek Trivedi, Social Development Officer, NULM, Municipal Corporation, Dr Bhavneet Bharti, Director Principal, Dr. B.R Ambedkar State Institute of Medical Science, Mohali, Punjab and Ms. Sarita Godwani, State Consultant, Behaviour Change & Communication and Community Development, POSHAN Abhiyaan have shared their views on the progress of POSHAN Abhiyaan and shared many healthy tips to stay fit in today’s busy lifestyle.
 
A competition for Junior Chefs organised at Anganwadi Centre, Sector 24, has also made its important mark of the day. Children participated in the event along with Healthy Food Items prepared by their mothers. Children were encouraged to adopt healthy habits. Children were provided with gifts and refreshments.
 
The Nutritional Rehabilitation Centre and Department of Pediatrics, GMSH-16, Chandigarh has initiated a month long (September, 2022) intensive campaign for universal screening of children enrolled in all 450 Anganwadis of Chandigarh for the Elimination of Childhood Malnutrition. In this series, a health checkup camp at manimajra town circle and total of 1248 children checked by doctors out of which 33 Malnourished Children have been referred to Nutritional Rehabilitation Centre, UT Chandigarh for further adequate management of malnutrition.