The basketball gods giveth, and the basketball gods taketh away.

No good result ever seems to come for these Lakers without some corresponding misfortune. A rousing win over the Utah Jazz on Wednesday night — a win that featured a 4th quarter comeback, a triumphant LeBron closeout with sideline celebrations from Aaron Donald, and an Austin Reaves dagger — cost the team Anthony Davis to the type of ankle inversion that looked gruesome on replay and after being helped off the court without putting any weight on his leg, and reportedly required crutches to help him walk at halftime.

Late Thursday evening we got the news we’ve been waiting for, and it’s not great. Davis has a sprained foot, and won’t be re-evaluated for another month. Welp.

If you’re looking for a silver lining in what comes next for these Lakers, it’s that they already have experience in playing without Davis. He has missed 20 games already this season, and had appeared in exactly 10 games since his return from the sprained MCL that sidelined him for over month. In that period of time, the Lakers learned a lot about what work and what doesn’t, and should be putting all their efforts into figuring out ways to do more of the former.

Part of that, however, is knowing that you actually do not have enough depth or talent in the front-court to carve out enough functional minutes where you avoid critical failures. If the team sticks with what they have, they’ll lose more than they’d like. If that sounds excessive or dramatic, that’s fine. But it doesn’t make it less true.

With DeAndre Jordan basically unplayable, Dwight Howard only useful on some nights due to his declining athleticism, and Carmelo Anthony, Trevor Ariza, and Stanley Johnson all (basically) 6’8 — and thus not viable “bigs” in most any lineup that doesn’t include LeBron James — the Lakers need another big man, and they need one now.

Read more
https://www.google.com/amp/s/www.silverscreenandroll.com/platform/amp/2022/2/18/22939402/lakers-buyout-market-free-agency-targets-tristan-thompson-dj-wilson-moses-brown