Warner Bros. Discovery announced Tuesday that it is abandoning all plans to release the nearly finished movie Batgirl, starring actress Leslie Grace, in a move that shocked Hollywood observers for the amount of money wasted.

Due to COVID-related delays, the film's original budget of $75 million quickly increased to $90 million. It was directed by the team of Adil El Arbi and Bilall Fallah, whose previous work includes the Disney+ series Ms. Marvel and the 2020 Will Smith and Martin Lawrence film Bad Boys for Life.

A Warner Bros. representative stated the following in a statement that was quoted by several media outlets: "Our leadership's strategic shift with regard to the DC universe and HBO Max is reflected in the decision to withhold the release of Batgirl. Although Leslie Grace is an exceptionally great performer, this choice does not speak to how well she performed."

Adam B. Vary, a senior entertainment journalist at Variety, has been covering the Batgirl saga. He says that moviegoers found significance in it. He adds, "This is something that hundreds, if not thousands, of people spent many, many months of their life working on. Not only did it feature Leslie Grace—a Latina actress—leading the picture. "One of the earliest trans characters, based on a trans character from a comic book, was also included in this film and was portrayed by a trans actor. In this film, Michael Keaton would reprise his role as Batman. Therefore, the fandom did indeed see it with some excitement."

Variety reported on Tuesday that the movie had been planned by WarnerMedia CEO Jason Kilar and Warner Bros. CEO Ann Sarnoff, and that its initial release was slated for the HBO Max streaming service. Since then, David Zaslav has taken over as CEO of the recently formed Warner Bros. Discovery company and has changed the company's corporate strategy to focus on streaming. Variety reports that the fate of Batgirl appears to have been affected by these strategy conflicts, but that dumping Batgirl would enable Warner Bros. Discovery to deduct the project from its taxes.