1.  “Nothing Serious” received huge love from movie fans since it reveals the honest views of men and women in real-life about love. It tells the story of Ja-young, a girl who is worried when it comes to dating, and Woo-ri, who softly holds on to both work and love, meeting each other through a dating app in a realistic way.  

2. “Crazy Romance” is a work that depicts the honest realistic romance between two people who have just broken up – Jae-hoon, a man who was hurt by his ex-girlfriend, and Sun-young, who was betrayed by her ex-boyfriend. 
The title sounds common but the uncommonly comic and straightforward stories create so much fun in the relationship between the two. You cannot find any romance that is completely full of pink mood in this work. Instead, “Crazy Romance” shows the feelings when people are at the end of their relationships, such as lingering, regret, and anger, as well as the comfort and empathy from another person in that desperate situation. 

3. Will ex-lovers be able to protect their love after reuniting? “Very Ordinary Couple” is a movie that will answer this question faithfully and realistically. Dong-hee and Young-eun are co-workers at the same bank and they have been dating secretly for three years. However, just like any other couple, they quarrel frequently after knowing too much about each other and eventually break up. Although both want to become strangers to each other, a flame of emotion burns again little by little as they keep bumping into each other at work. After several incidents, the two once again get closer to each other and begin dating again. But will they be able to have a perfect ending this time?

4. What is the taste of dating? “Sweet & Sour” is a romance that realistically depicts the moment when the taste of love, which lovers believe to remain forever in their relationship, changes. In “Sweet & Sour”. Various emotions, such as happy, angry, and tearful, intersect in the fresh and realistic love story between the three. The twist that turns the whole story upside down