1. Father Is Strange
“Father Is Strange” is a weekend family K-drama that has undoubtedly stood the test of time. At this point, it’s considered a classic, and anyone who wants a funny, heartfelt series that delves into the dynamics between family members should definitely watch this one. The series is a whopping 52 episodes, but you’ll become invested from the very start. It won the Grand Prize at the 2017 KBS Drama Awards, which was very well-deserved! 

2. Hello Me!
This healing series is good for any age and any family member. It has scenes where you and your parents will be laughing out loud and also be moved to tears. The series is about so much – self-love, acceptance, dreams, innocence, and that it’s never too late to figure things out and discover who you are. 

3. Racket Boys
The retro vibes of this series and adorable characters make this series a delightful watch. You see the progression of a badminton team and the competitions they go on, and you really start to root for them as they are an underdog team. It’s interesting to see where each character comes from and how important this game is to them. Family members will all find themselves relating to one or more of the characters and wanting the team to win; it will be fun to cheer them on as a family!

4. Do Do Sol Sol La La Sol
This series has a lighthearted feel despite the tragic events that occur in the beginning with the death of La La’s father. Seeing La La so optimistic, bright, and positive about trying to get back on her feet is so encouraging and inspiring to watch. She doesn’t let the momentary difficult times drag her down, but instead she perseveres, which is a beautiful message. 

5. Reply 1988
“Reply 1988” is the one that most family members would overall enjoy together. There is always some excitement seeing the dynamics between the family members and group of tight-knit friends. Additionally, because the series is set in the ’80s, parents may enjoy this trip down memory lane, igniting feelings of nostalgia.