"Hamara Bajaj" and "You just can't beat a Bajaj" are the taglines that helped in the sale of millions of iconic two-wheeler manufactured by Bajaj Auto, whose former chairman Rahul Bajaj passed away on Saturday. 

He was 83. His last rites will be held on Sunday.He is survived by two sons, Rajiv Bajaj and Sanjiv Bajaj, and a daughter, Sunaina Kejriwal.

He had been reportedly suffering from pneumonia, and also had a heart ailment. He had been undergoing treatment at Ruby Hall Clinic in Pune since the past month.

The veteran industrialist had resigned as Bajaj Auto Chairman in April last year. He stepped down from his post as chairperson of Bajaj Auto after heading it for over 50 years. 

Born in Kolkata in 1938, Rahul Bajaj had taken charge of the Bajaj Group in 1965 and under him, the group soared to one of the biggest in the sub-continent.

Padma Bhushan Rahul Bajaj was the grandson of eminent freedom fighter Jamnalal Bajaj. 

After stepping down as chairperson of Bajaj Auto, the second-largest motorcycle producer in India, he was appointed as the company’s chairman emeritus for five years on May 1, 2021.

A statement from the Bajaj Group said that he died at Pune in the presence of his closest family members.

A former Rajya Sabha member, Rahul Bajaj was a known philanthropist. He was respected globally, and a nationalist who spoke in interest of the nation and its growth, and also spoke truth irrespective of personal interest and party in power - be it Indira Gandhi or Narendra Modi. 

That's the reason why he was called the ‘spine’ of Indian business.

He is credited with making brand Bajaj a household name through the launch of blockbuster models such as the Chetak and Priya in the 1970s.

Chetak became a runaway hit, especially among the Indian middle-class households, looking for an affordable scooters. The demand was so huge that the waiting period extended to 10 years because there was a production cap in place that time. 

The iconic scooter was re-launched in 2020 in the form of a fully electric version, marking its entry in the electric vehicles.