House Committee is on fire with shreds of evidence that Donald Trump was told his last-gasp endeavor to overturn the results of the 2020 election was illegal but also forged ahead.

Trump even pressured his vice-president, Mike Pence, to reject a tally of state electors as part of a plot that brought the country “dangerously close to catastrophe”, the panel said.

There were witnesses and recorded testimonies from its yearlong investigation, the panel gave a dramatic accounting of the days and hours that preceded the assault. Chilling new evidence also listed the frantic moments after rioters raged the Capitol, as Pence was hurried from the Senate chamber to a secure underground location.

“Trump wanted Mike Pence to do something no other vice-president has ever done,” Congressman Bennie Thompson, chairman of the committee and a Democrat of Mississippi, said opening the hearing. “We were fortunate for Mr. Pence’s courage.”

Despite warnings yet in the final days before Congress was due to certify the election results Trump boosted his public and private pressure campaign on his loyal lieutenant to do his bidding.

Trapped between a president who declined to accept defeat and a constitution that gave him no such power to change the course of the election, the vice-president chose the constitution.

The committee also played testimony demonstrations that Trump was told of the violence breaking out in his name at the Capitol before he tweeted at 2.24 pm that Pence did not have the “courage to do what should have been done”. In the moments after Trump sent the tweet, the crowds both inside and outside “surged” and overwhelmed law enforcement officers.

The emails showed Eastman knew the plan rested on states authorizing Trump slates. The hearing concluded with a warning from Luttig that the same forces proceed to threaten American democracy.

Trump and his allies remain “a clear and present danger to American democracy,” Luttig told the panel, not because of what occurred on January 6 but because of their intention to “succeed in 2024 where they failed in 2020”. This should be a lesson to keep in mind for everyone voting for the 2024 elections.

Source: The Guardian.