Covid 19 the epidemic which led to millions of deaths, also made us realised how abused our bodies are with each passing day we live on this earth. 
Our ‘lives on the go’, has made sure our immunity levels are low, our resistance to diseases is nearly negligible. 
What the  pandemic has also highlighted is our mental distress, which was magnified and amplified due to lockdowns, curfews. As we remained locked inside our home, the social distancing measures kept us away from our loved ones, we felt the pangs of pandemic more. 
In addition, the pandemic has also revealed deep inequalities in society, among the richer and poorer nations, which made the need to have a healthy lifestyle and better immunity with more relevant than ever.
While not a lot of research will be available on the benefits of yoga but our cultural and traditional beliefs do tell us, yoga can help in dealing with the after effects of pandemic in a better way. 
Science has revealed that exercises help to de stress and make your body better, 
Yoga which is the physical practice of “asanas” or postures and some meditation will surely be beneficial. Some studies in recent times have  shown that a consistent yoga practice can improve quality of life. Yoga is not replacement of medicine but it can help prepare our body from illness. 

Anxiety and stress
Yoga practitioners insist that trials hyoga and meditation can lower symptoms of anxiety in both children and adults. Personal experience tells me breathing the air in and out in a more rhythmic manner does put your frayed nerves to rest. It also leads to better sleep. Calmer mind means better sleep and better mental agility. 
Immune health
Yoga teachers insist that  how yoga and meditation can reduce inflammation and boost immunity against some diseases-May be we will need more data here. 
Yes yoga is not an all out cure and claims of benefits will need more scientific studies more data but what no one can dispute is that a relaxed mind means healthy body and better life.