The U.S., the European Union, Japan and Canada are further severing Russia from global markets by removing a coveted trading designation over its war in Ukraine. Known as most-favored-nation status, it generally entitles a country to the best possible trading terms, which comes with many economic benefits. The EU agreed to drop the designation on March 15, 2022, and Congress is close to doing the same. Charles Hankla, a political scientist who studies trade at Georgia State University, explains what most-favored-nation status is, why countries want it and the consequences of Russia losing it.

1. What is most-favored-nation status?

Designating a country as a “most-favored nation,” which the U.S. also calls permanent normal trading relations, lies at the heart of the global trading system.

In fact, most-favored-nation status is mentioned in the very first article of the first treaty that established the multilateral trading system in 1947. Even today, the most critical commitment made by all 164 members of the World Trade Organization is to extend most-favored-nation status to all others in the club.

When a country awards this designation to a trading partner, it promises to apply only its lowest trade barriers – tariffs, quotas and the like – to that partner. If the awarding country then decides to lower barriers to one trading partner, it must lower them to all deemed a most-favored nation.

This embodies the principle of non-discrimination within the WTO: Every member of the multilateral trading organization must treat all the others alike.

2. How is it removed?

Russia is still a member of the WTO, which it joined in 2012. So how can its most-favored-nation status be taken away?

WTO rules provide a number of ways that members can impose special trading barriers on other members, but the one that’s relevant here is the so-called security exception. 

Read full story at The Conversation: https://theconversation.com/russias-no-longer-a-most-favored-nation-5-questions-about-the-coveted-trading-status-answered-179185

Image courtesy: Russian-made goods will likely cost more in Western liquor stores if most-favored-nation status is removed. AP Photo/Gene J. Puskar