The doctors at Sheikh Shakhbout Medical City, Abu Dhabi, have successfully treated a four month old baby girl from Yemen, with a rare and complex case of congenital hyperinsulinemic hypoglycaemia. 

The baby was transferred to SSMC from Socotra Islands, who was under treatment at another healthcare facility. 

The division chair of the paediatric intensive care unit at SSMC, Dr. Gamal Ahmed, shared that, a multidisciplinary team had discussed about the management of the disease and the essential care to be given to the patient in order to ensure the best outcome. 

“The young patient came to us, and after a few days, developed convulsions that were associated with refractory hypoglycaemia, which her laboratory workup confirmed. After we managed to control the convulsions with unremarkable brain sequelae or complications by MRI and EEG, the baby was diagnosed with congenital hyperinsulinemic hypoglycaemia, a rare endocrine disease.” 

Hypoglycaemia is a condition in which blood sugar (glucose) level is lower than normal. Congenital hyperinsulinism is the most severe cause of persistent hypoglycaemia in new-born babies and children. If hypoglycaemia is prolonged, it can be the most common cause of irreversible but preventable brain damage. Hyperinsulinemic babies usually need up to five times more glucose than children with typical glucose requirements do. 

“After the diagnosis of the patient’s condition was confirmed, we used quite an uncommon treatment, but one that is recommended in such a case of refractory hypoglycaemia. The patient’s blood glucose continued to fluctuate for a few days with the escalation of treatment until a steady state of blood glucose was reached. By the end of the treatment course, we observed no hypoglycaemic episode.” Dr Ahmed said. 

“This case was a success and a prime example of how we exercise our model of care at SSMC. We had a collegiate and cooperative multidisciplinary team who took consultation from international expertise, including our colleagues at Mayo Clinic, and we had the patient’s parents who were involved in the patient’s care at every step of the way.” 

Sources - https://www.google.com/amp/s/www.khaleejtimes.com/health/uae-abu-dhabi-hospital-successfully-treats-newborn-with-rare-disease%3famp=1