Haryana Men's Rugby 7s won Gold for Haryana in the 36th National Games. 
Haryana Rugby Secretary General Narender Mor said that in the final match held at Transtadia Football Ground in Ahmedabad, Haryana thrashed Maharashtra by 19-7 and retained the team championship.
  
Association's President and team coach Sarvinder Dabas said that in the semi-final, Prince of Haryana scored 5 points in the opening goal attempt against Delhi, which was converted into a goal by captain Deepak Punia and added 2 more points.  Playing for Maharashtra, Govind scored 5 points from the first attempt which Sridhar converted to add 2 more points.  In the first half, both the teams were tied after a tough fight. In the second half, Haryana's team kept the pressure on Maharashtra by playing aggressively from the beginning Prince Khatri scored 5 points from the attempt, then the team's Vikas Khatri scored 5 points from the attempt, which was converted in goal by Captain Deepak Punia which earned 2 points. Haryana team, maintaining consistency and aggression in the game, did not allow Maharashtra to take a single point.  In the second half of the match, jersey number 2 Bharat of Maharashtra and jersey number 8 Tilakraj of Haryana were given notices for fouls.  Earlier, Haryana had made it to the final after defeating Delhi by 31-5 in a one-sided match in the semi-finals, he said.  On the other hand, Maharashtra defeated West Bengal in the semi-finals to make it to the final. He remembers the journwy started years ago from Village Nangal Kalan of Sonipat District to National Golden triumph.
Narender Mor added that now we will focus on women's and junior teams in Haryana and work to prepare a new plant of rugby in Haryana, for this talks are already going on with the State Sports Minister Sardar Sandeep Singh and Rugby India President Rahul Bose. We will prepare a road map very soon. He further added this time the boys will get Job in State Sports deparment on the basis of thier medal in National Games, which will further attract the intrest of youth towards rugby. 