Arsene Wenger was appointed by Arsenal after the start of the 1996-97 season. His first full season, 1997-98 was also Arsenal’s 100th season in competitive football. In the summer window at the club, Wenger acquired the services of six players including Dennis Bergkamp and World Cup winner Emmanuel Petit.
Arsenal did not have the strongest start to the league season. The first fixture away at Leeds ended in a draw. They drew two of the next three games and ended August in fifth place. In September, Ian Wright set a new record as Arsenal's all-time top scorer with the first goal of his hat trick against Bolton Wanderers. Three wins in September sent them top of the table, one point ahead of defending champions Manchester United. United pulled ahead as Arsenal drew three of the next four. Uninspired form and results in the festive period had Arsenal sitting sixth at the turn of the year, 12 points behind United. Positive results in January and February brought them within nine points off the top with two games in hand. Arsenal kept chipping away at United’s lead, setting up a title clash against them in March. A narrow win essentially threw the title race wide open. April began in the same vein; faltering results from United let Arsenal sit on top again. The last lap was incredible: a ten-game winning run (a new record) saw Arsenal become only the third club – and Wenger the first non-British manager – to win the Premier League title. 
In the FA Cup, Arsenal beat Port Vale, Middlesbrough, West Ham, and Wolves en route to the final. The Third, Fifth, and Sixth rounds had to be settled via replays. Newcastle United were the other finalists. Goals by Overmars and Anelka in either half secured Arsenal their first double in the PL era. The 1997-98 season marked the beginning of the most dominant period of Wenger’s two decades at Arsenal. Until Chelsea’s takeover fuelled dominance in the mid-2000s, it was Wenger’s Arsenal that presented that greatest challenge to the hegemony Sir Alex’s United aimed to cement.