Real Madrid are set to play Chelsea in the quarterfinals of the UEFA Champions League! 


1) Chelsea eliminated Real Madrid last season!

Real Madrid would certainly have bad memories about facing the Blues. Chelsea knocked the Spanish giants in the semifinals last season as they went on to win their second Champions League title.

The first leg ended 1-1 in Spain but the Blues completely dominated their opponents in the second leg. Goals from Werner and Mount gave Chelsea a 2-0 win on the night as they qualified for the finals. 

With Carlo Ancelotti in charge, Real Madrid would definitely be a tougher nut to crack this time. Nevertheless, Chelsea have also improved significantly under Thomas Tuchel. Hence this should certainly be a close game!


2) The Blues are good defensively

One of Chelsea's biggest positive points is their defence. Since the turn of the year, the Blues have conceded 2 or more goals only in 2 games. These were against Liverpool and Luton in the Premier League and FA Cup respectively. 

The Blues have defenders like Antonio Rudiger, Andreas Christensen, Thiago Silva, Cesar Azpilicueta, Marcos Alonso, Reece James, and others in the squad. 

To add to this, Chelsea don't make many defensive errors (unlike PSG!). Hence even if they have a one-goal lead, they could trouble the likes of Vinicius, Benzema, and co. by shutting out the big chances.



3) Thomas Tuchel could be Real Madrid's undoing! 

With all due respect, Thomas Tuchel is certainly better than Mauricio Pochettino in managing the squad. If Tuchel was the manager of PSG, then the French club would certainly have closed the game against Real Madrid having been 2-0 up at one point.

The German manager plays a 3-5-2 formation very effectively. Under him, Chelsea have scored 57 goals while they have conceded just 19 in 28 Premier League games this season.

Thomas Tuchel managed to win the UEFA Champions League months after picking up the job in 2021. And to add to this, the Chelsea manager is unbeaten in six attempts against Real Madrid. Hence, this should be Los Blancos' biggest cause of concern going into the game.