What would happen if all the mosquitoes in the world disappeared? (Niko, 4, Diani in Kenya)

Most people in the world absolutely hate mosquitoes. Personally, I don’t mind them – they don’t really bite me, so they do not bother me that much. That is not the case for most people, who cannot stand the itchy bites and annoying noise mosquitoes make.

Because of the work I do on malaria, I even spend my time taking care of them and keeping them alive so my colleagues and I can research them. This is serious, important work because mosquitoes are more than just annoying: they are the most dangerous animals in the world. No other animals are responsible for more people’s deaths – mosquitoes spread a number of deadly diseases. So, would it not be better for the world if all these terrible animals just disappeared?

What are mosquitoes?
To be able to start answering the question, we need to understand what mosquitoes are. Mosquitoes are actually a large group of insects. They are flies, which means the adults look completely different to baby mosquitoes, known as larvae. The adults also have only two wings, unlike bees and wasps which have four. There are many different types of biting flies. All of them need to take blood from animals – including humans – to be able to lay eggs.

Even though there are many biting flies, such as horseflies and tsetse flies, mosquitoes are by far the most common and widespread.

What we call mosquitoes are actually 3,500 different types of insects, and they all behave differently. Most are active at night, but some are active during the day. People may not realise it, but only female mosquitoes bite us, because they need our blood so they can lay eggs. Male mosquitoes drink nectar – a sugary juice made by plants – to survive.

If you have a question you’d like an expert to answer, send it to curiouskids@theconversation.com.  

Full story at The Conversation: https://theconversation.com/curious-kids-what-would-happen-if-all-the-mosquitoes-in-the-world-disappeared-175528

Image Courtesy: James Gathany/Everett Collection/Shutterstock