Spanish Prime Minister Pedro Sánchez suggested the European Union leaders treat Covid-19 as an endemic illness similar to flu. He called for an evaluation of the pandemic as he believed the situation is not like what it was last year as school children in the country were allowed to return to their classrooms after the winter holidays. 

The country’s health minister Carolina Darias echoed his decision stating that with a huge number of vaccinated people in the country – 81.49 per cent of the population fully vaccinated – and the Omicron variant appearing to be a milder one, the country is evaluating a new Covid monitoring system. This means, in the radical move, Covid-19 will be monitored like flu, via a network of doctors who will report how the virus is spreading. There will be no tests on each case, but the data will be culled from a large sample of the population. 

Spain’s move is a significant departure from other countries in Europe—such as France and Germany—who have focused on the immediate challenge of tackling shooting Covid cases through stricter vaccine mandates, a thorough monitoring and tough lockdown restrictions, despite strong protests by a section of the population. 

But many experts at World Health Organization (WHO) have strongly objected to Spain’s maverick approach as they think it’s too early to compare Covid-19 with common flu. Daniel López-Acuña, former director at the WHO said it is “inappropriate to trivialize the sixth wave” and thinks that the endemic phase hasn't arrived yet. He also stressed on continuing with “rigorous epidemiological analysis” and it would take several months for Covid to turn endemic. 

The WHO also warned that Covid is estimated to infect more than half of people in Europe and central Asia in the next six to eight weeks. Catherine Smallwood, a senior emergency officer at WHO, Europe, cautioned that the virus is still evolving quickly and there is still a huge amount of uncertainty on how it spreads.          

READ MORE: 

https://www.cnbc.com/2022/01/12/should-we-treat-covid-like-the-flu-europe-is-starting-to-think-so.html

https://fortune.com/2022/01/11/flu-omicron-spain-eu-covid-endemic/

https://english.elpais.com/society/2022-01-13/spain-seeking-to-lead-world-with-new-covid-19-monitoring-system.html