The bacteria that causes TB has just small genetic changes yet attacks the lungs in two distinct ways, say Rutgers researchers.
The results, published in Nature Communications, may help halt the fast transmission cycle of TB, the world's second largest infectious killer after COVID-19. The study's findings may help explain why some medications work for some people but not others.
In the study, Padmini Salgame, associate director of the Public Health Research Institute at Rutgers New Jersey Medical School, found that strain variations affect the response of lung alveolar macrophages and how TB presents in the body and is spread. "We hope it will also help others seeking better therapies."
The researchers studied the effects of these two Mycobacterium TB strains on the lungs to better understand transmission and treatment results. The strains are classified as "high transmission" and "low transmission" based on their gene sequences. TB germs are transferred via the air when people with TB cough, speak, or sing.
The researchers evaluated the immunological responses that the infection elicited in the lungs of infected mice using strains discovered in a Rutgers-NDI collaboration study comparing "high transmission" and "low transmission" homes of persons with TB.
The lungs of mice infected with the high transmission strain immediately developed granulomas of immune cells that encapsulated the invading germs, halting disease progression. Sometimes the granulomas burst, spewing their contents. According to researchers, if the escaping bacteria are close enough to the bronchial airways, they might be released into the air.
"High transmission M. tuberculosis strains are set for increasing transmissibility," said Salgame, a professor in the Department of Medicine.
In mice infected with the low transmission strain, the invading bacteria were sluggish to activate the lung alveolar macrophages, resulting in areas of inflammation that prevented the germs from entering the airways, Salgame said.
The identification of the strains' varied trajectories opens the door for novel prevention and treatment strategies.
As Salgame points out, "some people with TB are more infectious than others." To yet, the mechanisms responsible for this heterogeneity in transmission amongst TB patients have not been identified.