There is comforting news from around the world about Omicron. It is not as serious as the previous variants of the Coronavirus. And people are recovering even though it is more contagious than any variant before this.

But the world has a new concern—Omicron BA.2. This variant has overtaken original omicron variant in Denmark in just a few days and it is said to be more contagious than Omicron. 

The U.K. Health Security Agency has said that BA.2 has a “substantial” growth advantage over the original Omicron. It has also confirmed that it spreads faster than the original Omicron. Even as scientists worldwide study the new variant, it’s a new headache that scientists have to deal with.

One encouraging fact about this virus that was first discovered in India and South Africa is that it has made no difference in hospitalizations between the BA.2 subvariant and the original form of Omicron, also known as BA.1.

Talking to Medical News Today, Dr. Anna Ssentongo, assistant professor of public health at the Penn State College of Medicine, said, “BA.2 is missing the spike 69-70 mutations, so it does not cause S gene target failure, making it harder to identify on PCR tests.” (https://www.medicalnewstoday.com/articles/omicron-what-do-we-know-about-the-stealth-variant#What-we-know-so-far)

The World Health Organization (WHO) has not called BA.2 a variant of concern. But it may be forced to do so very soon if the variant spreads and hospitalisations increase. But WHO officials have been warning for a while that future Covid variants could be more transmissible than the previous ones, and BA.2 has proved to be just that. (https://www.cnbc.com/2022/01/28/the-new-bapoint2-omicron-subvariant-is-already-circulating-in-half-of-us-states.html)

The BA.2 variant has been detected in the U.S., too. The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) says that the prevalence of some other variants including BA.2 was included in the Omicron tally. It has not been identified separately. 

Read more:

What should you know about BA.2 variant of Coronavirus?
https://www.wsj.com/articles/what-we-know-about-the-ba-2-omicron-variant-11643300997