Lagos, Nigeria’s economic hub, with a population of more than 15 million, generates an estimated 12,000 metric tonnes of waste daily, which comes to about 4.3 million tonnes of waste annually. This ends up on the streets and in the city’s four officially designated landfills.
These sites support thousands of people who search through what’s discarded for materials with resale value. Our survey of two landfill sites discovered a total of about 2,800 waste pickers – men and women.
Most landfills have buy-back centres, where the waste pickers sell recyclables such as metal, glass, plastic and paper. We observed that the subsistence incomes of waste pickers fluctuated daily, depending on the volume of recyclable waste delivered to the landfill, its quality, and varying prices. The daily average income of the street waste pickers was N2,075 (US$4.99) while that of the landfill waste pickers was N5,530 (US$13.30). Though this average income is higher than the poverty line, the work and the environment are hazardous, and its value is not fully appreciated.
Waste pickers often work without protective gear, unassisted, and without access to primary care or first aid and employment regulations. They operate on the margins of or outside the formal process of managing solid waste, but play vital roles, especially in reuse, recycling and cost recovery.
They work in unsheltered environments and are unprotected from severe heat, sun, rain, and cold weather. These conditions have been linked with cardiovascular disorders. Likewise, exposure to dust, micro-organisms and microbial toxins can result in chronic respiratory diseases, skin problems and gastrointestinal illnesses.
Research on waste pickers has tended to focus on the health risks of their occupation. Our study confirmed that Lagos waste pickers were exposed to occupational health hazards, but also aimed to reveal more about their well-being and their own perspectives.
The findings may help waste management authorities to make landfills a more dignified working environment that sustains waste pickers’ livelihoods without jeopardising their well-being.
Read more: https://theconversation.com/waste-pickers-in-lagos-tell-their-stories-about-a-dangerous-existence-188621