Academy Award Winning actor Sean Penn is in Ukraine presently filming a documentary about Russia's invasion. It has been confirmed by Vice Studios. The Actor was seen at a press briefing on Thursday in Kyiv the capital of Ukraine, he was listening and probably filming government officials speak about the crisis.
Vice Studios in association with Vice World News and Endeavor Content are producing the documentary.
Penn before this had visited Ukraine in November 2021, and was preparing for his documentary by visiting the country's military. Ukrainian Joint Forces Operation Press Service had released  the photos at that time.
The Office of the President issued a statement through the Ukrainian embassy praising the Oscar-winning actor and filmmaker. The statement read, 
“Penn has visited the Office of the President and spoken with deputy prime minister Iryna Vereshchuk, as well as local journalists and members of the Ukrainian military...The director specially came to Kyiv to record all the events that are currently happening in Ukraine and to tell the world the truth about Russia’s invasion of our country,” the statement’s translation reads. ‘Sean Penn is among those who support Ukraine in Ukraine today. Our country is grateful to him for such a show of courage and honesty.”
The statement futhers adds, “Sean Penn is demonstrating bravery that many others have been lacking, in particular some Western politicians. The more people like that — true friends of Ukraine, who support the fight for freedom — the quicker we can stop this heinous invasion by Russia.”

Sean Penn has been at the centee of many anti-war and humanitarian operations over the years. A documentary was released in 2020 on Discovery Plus namely “Citizen Penn” which recounted the efforts made by the actor to set up the non-profit organization Community Organized Relief Effort, also called CORE, which were made to respond to the Haiti earthquakes of 2010. CORE also operated and deployed many teams to help in COVID-19 testing and vaccination programs.