By Archit Mehta

[Disclaimer: Video contains self-harm. Reader discretion is advised.]

A 20-second clip of a Kanwar procession is viral on social media. In the clip, a man jumps in front of a truck carrying the Kanwar devotees. Kanwar Yatra is a pilgrimage organised in the Hindu calendar month of Saavan during which Saffron-clad Shiva devotees embark on a journey from the Ganges with pitchers of holy water. They offer the water to Shivlings at various Shiva pilgrims across India. In Southern India, it is known as Kavadi Aattam. Mythologist Devdutt Pattanaik has explained the intersection of the two cultures on his blog.

In the video, three trucks are spotted passing by while playing loud music. The video ends abruptly with a man jumping in between the third truck and the truck runs over him. A few seconds prior to that, another man wearing a skullcap can be seen in the frame.

This video is widely shared on WhatsApp, with a long Hindi text. As per the text, Kavadis are being framed in this incident as the man “deliberately” jumped between the trucks. The text furthers that the man hailed from the Muslim community, and this has led to communal tensions in Uttar Pradesh’s Deoband city in the Saharanpur district. It also mentions that the police have registered a case against the Kavadis.

The text further added that Deoband is a communally sensitive place and posed the question of why did the Muslim man jump between the truck of Kavadis.

[Original Hindi text: आज सुबह “देवबन्द” जो कि (अतिसंवेदनशील जगह हैं) में “कावड़ियों” के “ट्रक” के नीचे एक “मुस्लिम” शख्स की मौत हो जाती हैं जिसको लेकर बवाल खड़ा हो गया कि “कावड़ियों” ने जानबूझ कर इस व्यक्ति को मारा हैं पुलिस ने सभी “कावड़ियों” के खिलाफ केस तुरत दर्ज कर कार्यवाही शुरू कर दी लेकिन भला हुआ एक बच्चे का जो एक जगह खड़ा होकर “कावड़ियों” की “झांकी” की विडीयो बना रहा था 

Read the full story here:- https://www.altnews.in/old-video-of-muslim-man-dying-by-suicide-during-kanwar-yatra-viral-with-communal-spin/?utm_source=website&utm_medium=social-media&utm_campaign=newpost