The Challenges to Nation-Building
in Afghanistan continues...
Since the 1920s, the Afghan state has defined an institutionalized, 
partly non-tribal body, the Loya Jirga (Great Council) as the highest 
representative body of the Afghan state. It may be viewed as a political 
phenomenon, which owed its existence to the rulers’ efforts to establish a 
central state. At the core of its genesis laid the basic tension between the 
state and the tribe, between center and the periphery. Its composition has, 
however, changed over time in accordance with state interests. Loya Jirgas
are of two types, one called by the people themselves at the time of 
national crisis to deliberate and decide upon matters of war and peace, 
43 election of an Amir or king and restoration of the national sovereignty 
and national independence. Secondly, when circumstances compel the 
ruler or leader to consult people with regard to urgent and important 
matters, like enactment of fundamental law, ratification and endorsement 
of treaties reached with outside powers and defense of territorial integrity 
and national sovereignty. The Loya Jirga has some limitations as an 
instrument for peace in a setting devoid of functioning state institutions. 
On the other hand, it is particularly efficient at times of political stability, 
enabling those in power to give their policies the veneer of broad popular acceptance.
Both the Jirga and the village council are scenes of political 
maneuvering among khans that also occur constantly in less formal 
settings. Where another form of local political organization that is 
prevalent among non-tribal populations is the Islamic coalition that is 
based on pir-murid relations. In such organizations a local pir may have 
followers in several districts, may support each other in disputes within 
local society or against the state. When religious leaders believe that Islam 
is in danger from either a foreign power or the government, Islamic 
coalitions come into play. Two traditionalist parties of Afghan resistance, 
the National Islamic Front of Afghanistan and the Afghan National 
Liberation Front were such country–wide Islamic coalitions. Their 
leaders were the heads of the Gailani and the Mujadidi families.
To be continued...