1- THE DOCTOR

William Hurt, who plays Dr. Jack McKee, stars in this 1991 film of a California heart surgeon. Dr McKee is emotionless towards everyone, even his family, and to him patients are nothing more than just a number in the waiting room. Everything is hunky-dory until the doctor is pronounced with throat cancer. Now, the doctor becomes a patient and must go through the perils of the medical system and face the cruelty of his very colleagues. 

2- AWAKENINGS

Malcolm Sayer, is a neurologist who has discovered the benefits of the L-Dopa drug in ‘awakening’ patients with encephalitis lethargica. He administers the drug it to his patients who fell victim to the encephalitis epidemic in the 1920s, especially Leonard Lowe who has awakened for the first time since he was a child. However, this awakening does not last long and patients soon being to relapse. This 1990 movie was also based on a true story 

3- SOMETHING THAT LORD MAKE

Something the Lord Made touched the hearts of many. This tale goes back to the 1930s when African American janitor Vivien Thomas, played by Mos Def, collaborates with Dr. Alfred Blalock  the white chief surgeon at Johns Hopkins University. The unlikely two paved the path of modern day heart surgery by surgically treating the Tetralogy of Fallot Resisting the prevalent black-white segregation and the Hopkins administrators’ protests.

4- ARTICLE 19.

 is a 1992 movie that goes ‘behind the scenes’, to reveal just what doctors will actually do to have their patients happy and healthy again. Kiefer Sutherland stars as Dr. Peter Morgan, who is interning at the Veteran’s Administration hospital, and expects to start his private practice soon. At the run-down VA hospital, Dr. Morgan discovers a complex bureaucratic system that values politics more than patients’ health.

5-PATCH ADAMS

Breaking box-office records worldwide, this 1998 film is Robin Williams’ second appearance as a doctor. It is based on the true story of Dr. Hunter Adams, a physician who believed in laughter being the best medicine, and using unconventional ways to treat difficult patients.