Sima Samar (born February 6, 1965 in Ghazni Province) is an Afghan politician, physician and human rights activist. She was born in 1957 in Jaghori district of Ghazni province. She completed her primary and secondary education in Jaghori and high school in Helmand province, and later entered the medical school of Kabul University. She graduated from this university in 1982.

The first woman to serve in a post-Taliban cabinet in Afghanistan is known as a prominent figure in the field of human rights and women's rights.
She was the first woman of the millennium to be educated at that time. She was the first Minister of Women's Affairs in Afghanistan and has been the Chair of the Afghan Independent Human Rights Commission since 2002. She was appointed as a member of the High Advisory Board of the Secretary-General for Peace Mediation on January 19, 2017. She has also served as the UN Special Rapporteur on the situation of human rights in Sudan since 2005.


Activities in the field of women and children

Wherever and whenever human rights, women's and children's rights are defended in Afghanistan, people subconsciously follow the smiling and determined face of Sima Samar. Helping the underprivileged, widows, women and children during difficult years and educating them about access to human rights, she now serves as chair of the Human Rights Commission.

She has previously served in President Karzai's cabinet and served as the first female minister in Afghanistan in the Ministry of Women's Affairs. Sima Samar, who has spent many years treating patients with limited facilities in Jaghori and Quetta, Pakistan, is now one of the most successful and prominent figures in the field of human rights, women and children and advocacy. Which has been done in the form of Martyrs Organization since ancient times.

These projects have been implemented in Bamyan, Ghor, Daykundi, Surpol Zahab, Kabul, Maidan Wardak and Ghazni provinces. Following the solution of the people's problems, the Martyrs' Organization has started its activities in most of the provinces. Established the Martyrs' Organization in 1989, providing 25 hospitals and clinics in different parts of Afghanistan

be to continued