By BestMediaInfo Bureau 

The International Cricket Council (ICC) will be conducting an e-auction for its sale of media rights only if the bidders quote an identical amount in the opening round, industry sources told PTI on July 15.

While Viacom18, which had recently won the IPL India digital rights with a record Rs 23,578 crore bid via an e-auction, had reportedly sought clarifications on certain aspects from the governing body, the ICC will stick to its original plan -- sealed bids for round 1 and e-auction for second round only if there is a tie.

In fact, the ICC on July 15 sent out multiple clarifications to the interested parties on the bidding process that will be held in August for the cycle starting in 2024.

"The ICC always gets multiple queries on the bidding process and that is nothing new for the global body.

"Clarification went out to prospective bidders on a range of things as there is a specific time for clarification. Bids will be proceeding exactly as outlined previously. Sealed bids are considered standard practice to drive the best price for members," an industry source privy to the development told PTI on conditions of anonymity.

It is learnt that the ICC always had the provision for e-auction but only if there is a second round with initial bids having companies quoting similar amounts.

"If it goes to the second round, it will be e-auction, a straight shoot-out if there are two similar bids and we need a clear winner," the source said.

ICC has invited sealed bids for the media rights for ICC events starting in 2024, which are to be submitted on August 22, 2022. The successful bidders will be announced by early September.

The ICC has three packages -- Package A is TV Rights, 'B' is Digital Rights and 'C' is combined TV and Digital Rights. The packages include multiple women's U-19 T20 World Cups.

In the men's category, there are two specific durations — four years and eight years.

Read the full story here:- https://bestmediainfo.com/2022/07/icc-will-conduct-eauction-of-media-rights-only-if-the-bidders-quote-an-identical-amount-in-the-opening-round