On Friday in Bundesliga action, Bayern Munich will take on Bayer Leverkusen at the Allianz arena.
Bayern Munich enters this match after losing their previous match, 1-0, to Enrico Maassen's Augsburg. Even if there is still plenty of time to reduce such arrears, Nagelsmann is feeling the strain, particularly in light of last season's embarrassing loss to Villarreal in the Champions League quarterfinal. It would only fuel rumors about his job security if he lost his fifth straight league game versus Leverkusen, a squad that is also having trouble.
In contrast, Bayer Leverkusen and Ole Werner's Werder Bremen drew 1-1 in a league match. A goal by Serbian center-back Milos Veljkovic for Werder Bremen offset a goal from Bayer Leverkusen midfielder Kerem Demirbay in the second half. The club captain's recent slump is indicative of a lack of faith within the organization because he has often been so dependable throughout his previous four seasons with Leverkusen.
Bayern Munich vs Bayer Leverkusen:
Probable Playing XI
Bayer Leverkusen: Lukas Hradecky; Odilon Kossounou, Jonathan Tah, Edmond Tapsoba; JeremieFrimpong, Robert Andrich, Kerem Demirbay, Mitchel Bakker; Callum Hudson-Odoi, Moussa Diaby; Patrik Schick
Bayern Munich: Manuel Neuer; Benjamin Pavard, Mathias De Ligt, Dayot Upamecano, AlphonsoDavies; Joshua Kimmich, Leon Goretzka; Leroy Sane, Jamal Musiala, Serge Gnabry; Sadio Mane
Bayern Munich vs Bayer Leverkusen:
Prediction
We anticipate the international interruption to have aided Bayern calm down a bit and revert to title contention against Leverkusen this weekend. The visitors undoubtedly possess the offensive capabilities to negatively impact the Bavarians during a switchover, but they are currently lacking in confidence and typically do not respond well to any setbacks or extended periods of pressure.
Prediction: Bayern Munich 4-2 Bayer Leverkusen
Bayern Munich vs Bayer Leverkusen:
Live Stream
In the UK, Sky Sports holds exclusive rights to broadcast Bundesliga matches. Bundesliga matches may be viewed live and on-demand by subscribers using the Sky Go mobile app or the online player.