“Health Promoting Schools are schools which display and support the commitment to enhancing the emotional, social, physical and moral wellbeing of their school community” (WHO).
It is globally being realized that schools play a vital role in the overall development of a child into a competent adult who contributes usefully to society. Health is an important aspect of development of children and education is an important determinant of health. Almost all children attend school at some time during their lives and spend 6 – 7 hours of their time everyday in that learning environment. Apart from this, the school curriculum can have substantial influence on health promoting behaviors, being the strongest social and educational institutions available for execution of intervention programmes as they have the required structure and governance.
It is important that all schools strive to be child friendly and health promoting. Schools must be safe, caring and supportive learning environments. Everyone involved in the school has a role to play: teachers, students, management,
  
      parents and the wider community. All stakeholders must actively participate to improve the health of our children.
GLOBAL SCHOOL HEALTH INITIATIVES
WHO's Global School Health Initiative, launched in 1995, seeks to mobilize and strengthen health promotion and education activities at the local, national, regional and global levels. The Initiative is designed to improve the health of students, school personnel, families and other members of the community through schools.
The goal of WHO's Global School Health Initiative is to increase the number of schools that can truly be called "Health-Promoting Schools". Although definitions will vary, depending on need and circumstance, a Health-Promoting School can be characterized as a school constantly strengthening its capacity as a healthy setting for living, learning and working.

To be continued 
Tomorrow 
The Emerging Global Vision of a “Health Promoting school”