It was over 24 years ago that the Australian cricket team last played in Pakistan. While several tours in this period were planned, they had to be cancelled because of terror threats most of the time. Australia has sent a top-tier team to tour Pakistan. (https://www.aljazeera.com/news/2022/2/27/cricket-australia-arrive-in-pakistan-for-first-tour-in-24-years)

Pakistan has been virtually a no-go area for most of the world's cricket-playing countries for more than a decade now. A terrorist attack in 2009 on the team bus of the Sri Lankan cricket team in Lahore was the last time the country saw any major cricket team touring it. 

While Pakistan has promised 'president-like" security to the touring teams, not many had dared to tour the country. But the last two years have seen countries like Sri Lanka, West Indies and Zimbabwe touring the country. But others have been skeptical. 

The present tour has happened after the Australian government was assured of the security and included a reconnaissance by the Australian Cricketers' Association. (https://www.cricket.com.au/news/australia-pakistan-test-tour-revised-venues-rawalpindi-lahore-karachi-board-meeting-justin-langer/2022-02-04)

Pakistan has taken the Pakistan Super League (PSL), the Twenty20 tournament with various international players, as the test case to boost the world's confidence. Cities like Karachi and Lahore, where the matches have been held, have been under virtual lockdown for security reasons. The successful tournament that ends today has been incident-free.

If the Australia tour goes smoothly, it could open doors for other large cricketing countries. Pakistan could be back on the international schedule and teams like England, New Zealand, and others could tour the cricket-crazy country.

The Aussies will play three Test matches, three One Day Internationals and one T20 match against Pakistan. The first match of the Test series will begin on March 4 in Rawalpindi. It will be followed by Tests in Karachi and Lahore. (https://www.thenews.com.pk/latest/937218-australias-cricket-team-arrive-in-pakistan-for-first-time-since-1998-amid-strict-security)

Read more:

Australia in Pakistan: A 24-year-long pause:
https://www.hindustantimes.com/cricket/australia-in-pakistan-a-24-year-long-pause-101645881521292.html


All hell broke loose' – Sangakkara recounts 2009 terror attack on Sri Lankan team in Lahore:
https://scroll.in/field/963923/watch-all-hell-broke-loose-sangakkara-recounts-2009-terror-attack-on-sri-lankan-team-in-lahore