Earlier this month, New Brunswick’s Court of Queen’s Bench ruled that the province’s lieutenant governor must be bilingual. The ruling brought to an end an 18-month legal challenge launched by the Société de l'Acadie (SANB) over the appointment of the Honourable Brenda Murphy.

Because Murphy is not functionally bilingual, the SANB argued that the appointment violated official language rights, specifically sections 16, 16.1, 18 and 20 — all protected by the Charter of Rights and Freedoms. New Brunswick is the only bilingual province where English and French are official languages.

Though the court’s conclusion is laudable (and I agree with it completely), the process by which it reached that conclusion is deeply flawed. The federal government must appeal this ruling — not because it disagrees with it, but because such a consequential decision requires greater appreciation of the Crown and its constitutional nuances.

An illogical court ruling
We need to separate the ruling’s conclusion from the logic it took to arrive there because the logic is highly problematic and the ruling is constitutionally incoherent. It demonstrates a poor understanding of who or what the Crown is in Canada.

The ruling conveniently avoids using one part of the constitution (the Charter) to invalidate another (Section 58 of the Constitution Act 1867), raising questions about the case’s justiciability.

Legal scholar Kerri Froc describes it as an “unreasonable interpretation” of the Charter and a “massive overstep on the separation of powers.” Political scientist Stéphanie Chouinard notes that the ruling poses “new questions on law that have far-reaching consequences beyond language rights.”

The ruling’s logic is also odd because it focuses primarily on access to service delivery from the lieutenant governor through their legislative roles and interactions with the public. While important, they are not essential to the constitutional purpose of the lieutenant governor and can be remedied.

Read more - https://theconversation.com/new-brunswicks-ruling-that-the-lieutenant-governor-must-be-bilingual-needs-to-be-appealed-but-not-for-the-reasons-you-think-181764