The Afghan girls' robotics team finished second among 88 countries in the PCB The Change World Championship.
The competition was held online two months ago between European, American and Asian countries.
The citizens of Afghanistan have welcomed the robotics team runner-up.
The Afghan girls robotics won the second place in this global competition by building an intelligent traffic system and displaying it in this global competition.
Social media users and a number of politicians have hailed the success and run of the girls robotics team.
About ten members of the Afghan robotics team fled the country following the Taliban rule in Afghanistan and took refuge in Mexico.

Women and the second sex
Women in Afghanistan have always suffered from the longevity of tribal and traditional beliefs and ideas. Injustice and gender discrimination are not uncommon in the history of this country. Now, ten and a half years after the presence of international forces and democratic beliefs and gender equality, especially in human rights statements, there is not a day that women do not fall victim to delusions and misconceptions. Most of these sacrifices are made by families and close relatives under the guise of friendliness and mischief. Here, the woman is not a human being alone, but the womanhood of a woman is realized by her complementarity with the man.

Some of these misconceptions have been accepted even by women themselves. Women promoted him to the position of divine caliphate and human dignity, and arranged for him a rank that is unmatched in the tradition of the times. Here, however, arbitrary interpretations and strange interpretations are attributed to Islam from the perspective of the tribe, and this distorts man's view of religious nature.
If we believe in the abilities of Afghan women.
Women are always proud of their society and their country. But unfortunately, the minds of religious Islamists who have not yet achieved religious segregation are trampling on the power and energy of Afghan women.
We believe in our abilities. And every Afghan woman swore to fight from every drop of blood that flows from this country.
Peace, gender equality, freedom, life