
The first time someone told me they had started meditating, I was outwardly supportive but inwardly skeptical. To me, the word ‘meditation’ was at the time synonymous with the kind of woo-woo, sage-scented nonsense that I wanted no part in. But, if I were being honest with myself, the idea of having to sit silently with the goal of clearing your mind was more than a little intimidating, and for someone who is chronically plugged into the internet and whose brain runs a mile a minute, seemed frankly unachievable. But as I grew older and adult life began to threaten to get the best of me, the idea of being able to achieve even a few minutes of anything resembling peace became more and more appealing.
If you’re the kind of person who has always been labelled an overthinker, then you’re no stranger to sinking into a stubborn thought pattern that refuses to be overridden. As someone who falls into the aforementioned category, all my research around how to start meditating led me to the conclusion that the best way would be to just start with it. It’s important not to put pressure on yourself to achieve some kind of outcome when you first begin the practice of meditation.
Much like sports, there are many different types of meditation that you could choose to practise. While most modern meditation practices draw their roots from Buddhist tradition, I was drawn to the most popular contemporary form, which is mindfulness meditation. 
So, the big question — how to start meditating? Start by sitting down somewhere quiet and comfortable, and by paying attention to your breath and body. Using a guided meditation app or audio makes it easier for those that find the process particularly unapproachable. Focus on the way your breath moves through your body. Begin to notice the sounds around you, maybe the hum of your A.C. or the jingle of a siren in the distance. If you find your mind wandering, bring your attention back to a part of your body. Keep repeating this for as long as your mind will allow. And just like that, you’re meditating.