A urinary tract infection is caused by the bacteria that enter the urinary tract from the anal or vaginal region and cause an infection. Therefore, the first-line treatment for urinary tract infections is usually antibiotics. An antibiotic kills bacteria and helps fight infection.

UTIs are treated with medications (antibiotics) chosen by your healthcare provider based on the type and strain of bacteria that is causing it, as well as where your infection may be located within the urinary tract. Oral antibiotics are mainly used to treat a urinary tract infection in the lower tract. Intravenous antibiotics, which are directly injected into your veins are required for upper tract UTIs – but this is not common. Lower tract UTIs are most common and their treatment is very simple!

Sometimes, especially if you have had a UTI recently and are having another one now, your reports may show that the bacteria in the urine are resistant to some antibiotics. In that case, your doctor uses the results of your urine culture test to choose a short course of antibiotic medicines that will work best against the bacteria that is causing your infection. Antibiotics that are widely used include – Nitrofurantoin, Amoxicillin, Sulfonamides, Cephalosporins, Doxycycline, Trimethoprim/sulfamethoxazole and Quinolone.

In order to fully get rid of the bacteria in your urinary tract and to prevent any recurrence, it’s critical that you undergo UTI treatment according to your healthcare provider’s instructions. If your symptoms go away and you feel better, don’t stop taking the antibiotic. It is possible that the infection will return if the full course of antibiotics is not taken. If you skip or miss a course of antibiotics, contact your doctor so they can advise you on how to make-up for it!

If you have a history of recurrent urinary tract infections, you may be given an antibiotic prescription to take as soon as symptoms appear. Consult your doctor about the best treatment options for you in case you have a history of frequent UTIs.



Sources:

1-https://www.healthline.com/health/urinary-tract-infection-adults
2-https://my.clevelandclinic.org/health/diseases/9135-urinary-tract-infections