By NewsDrum Desk
Los Angeles: India has not agreed to the commitments of the trade pillar of the 14-member Indo-Pacific Economic Framework (IPEF) as broader consensus has so far not emerged on certain issues like environment, labour and public procurement.
Briefing media after the conclusion of the two-day IPEF ministerial meet, commerce and industry minister Piyush Goyal said that India would continue to engage with the trade track in the IPEF and will wait for the final contours to be decided on the trade pillar before it formally associates with that track.
"On one pillar which deals primarily with trade, the contours of the framework particularly, any commitments required on environment, labour, the digital trade, public procurement are certain areas in which a broader consensus has yet to emerge amongst all the nations.
"We have yet to see what benefits member countries will derive and whether any conditionalities on, for example, environment may discriminate against developing countries who have the imperative to provide low cost and affordable energy to meet the needs of a growing economy. We are also in the process of firming up our own digital framework and laws, particularly regarding privacy and data," Goyal told reporters here.
All the other 13 Indo-Pacific Economic Framework for prosperity countries have joined the four pillars -- trade, supply chains, clean economy, and fair economy.
A ministerial statement on three subjects -- supply chains, clean economy, and fair economy -- and a ministerial text on trade pillar was issued after the conclusion of the meeting.
While India was mentioned in three statements about supply chains, clean economy, and fair economy, there was no mention of India in the ministerial text about the trade pillar.
The IPEF was launched jointly by the US and other partner countries of the Indo-Pacific region on May 23 in Tokyo. The 14 IPEF partners represent 40 per cent of global GDP and 28 per cent of global goods and services trade.
Read more: https://www.newsdrum.in/business/india-not-part-of-ipefs-trade-pillar-broader-consensus-yet-to-emerge-among-nations-87653.html
