By Sneha Kumari

With over 20 million Connected TV households and a wide range of video content, India is one of the world's fastest-growing advertising markets. The growth in CTVs has attracted the brands so much that they have started investing heavily in them. The OTT platforms have also started selling their ad space aggressively on CTVs.

According to a FICCI-EY report, smart CTVs will exceed 40 million by 2025, thereby ending the monopoly of broadcasters on the large screen and leading to around 30% of content consumed on large screens to be social, gaming, digital, etc.

This will lead to availability of more CTV ad inventory for automated auctions. But the question is, should brands deal directly with content platforms or should they take the programmatic route for advertising? The pros and cons of both approaches are yet to be determined.

According to Siddharth Dabhade, Managing Director at MiQ, it depends on the goal of the brand. When a brand targets a specific type of content, or targets the relevant audience, then it can engage directly with OTT platforms. 

However, if the brand is looking to reach a wider set of audience an audience targeting methodology can be utilised which will take into account OTTs. This can be achieved with data-driven programmatic advertising, as per Dabhade. 

Achyuth Chirravuri, Group Head – Strategy, Carat India, said that the decision usually depends on a range of factors including the size of the client, budget, and objective of the campaign. 

He said, programmatic is a good approach when the objective is audience-first rather than platform/content first, as it allows advertisers to run ads on a TG across platforms at a lower CPM. However, premium content (such as sports and shows like KBC and Koffee with Karan) is not available through programmatic and would require direct deals with the publisher. 

Read the full story:- https://bestmediainfo.com/2022/08/connected-tv-advertising-should-brands-deal-directly-with-content-platforms-or-go-down-the-programmatic-route