Ghana is Africa’s largest gold producer, the sixth globally. It produced approximately 129 metric tonnes in 2021.Gold mining in Ghana stretches back over 1000 years. It first served as a cultural heritage for decorating kings and queens from the Ashanti region. Gold also played an important role during the colonial era. In the early half of the 1890s, it became an official trading commodity. Currently, gold contributes 12% to Ghana’s Gross Domestic Product.Over the years, a new form of mining known as artisanal and small-scale mining has emerged in Ghana and has become a source of revenue and income for poor people living in rural areas. But it’s dangerous for residents in mining areas and also to illegal mining operators. And operations continue to wreak havoc on the environment. Artisanal mining also affects farming, cocoa production, and freshwater fishing.In the late 1980s, the Ghanaian government regularised artisanal mining to allow citizens of 18 years and above to obtain licenses. Today, artisanal mining exists in two forms: licensed and unlicensed operations. Licensed artisanal mining is also known as small-scale mining, whereas in local parlance, unlicensed mining is called ‘galamsey’, to wit, gather-to-sell.Artisanal and small-scale mining employs approximately 1 million people in Ghana. An additional 5 million peoples’ livelihoods depend on its proceeds.Artisanal and small-scale mining also accounts for 40% of gold produced in Ghana, making it an attractive sector for revenue generation.A major problem with unlicensed mining is government’s inability to enforce mining laws. About 85% of artisanal and small-scale mining operators have no license to operate. This is because of the long hours it takes to process mining license applications, and the exorbitant fees charged by the minerals and mining commission.The difficulty with enforcing mining laws prompted my research. I set out to understand why past and present governments have been unable to enforce laws, and to consider solutions to the problem.Read more: https://theconversation.com/ghanas-artisanal-miners-are-a-law-unto-themselves-involving-communities-can-help-fix-the-problem-192256