Megadeth are not among the lords of thrash metal for no reason. Sixteen albums in and the band still act like they are 20 year old pissed young adults from the streets of America, giving no signs of aging. 
In a time when standard thrash metal has aged a great deal and barely manages to sound fresh, Megadeth manage to sound great, even if it is a sound that we have heard before.
A throwback to some of their earliest works, right of the bat ‘The Sick, The Dying...And The Dead’ possesses the rawness and ferocity of Megadeth’s older works and is one of Megadeth’s craziest and fastest albums showcasing that Megadeth is still full of energy and won’t retire anytime soon.
Crazy fast, heavy and technical, this album has all the ingredients for giving the listener a fun little headbangable session followed by a week of painful neck injury. ‘The Sick, The Dying...And The Dead’ showcases a depth of composition and songwriting brilliance that’s rooted in the band’s natural ability to reimagine Megadeth’s iconic raw thrash sound into a fresh amalgamation of heaviness, melody, speed and technicality.
 Putting the instrumental brilliance of Megadeth in words is simply unneeded, suffice it to say, the are all in tip top shape and crazy good.
All the elements that people love about the band are here, the scorching insane riffs, the striking technicality, the crazy speed and the killer bass play and guitar solos right up from killer opening title track to ‘Life In Hell’, ‘Night Stalkers’(special thanks to Ice-T who makes it the best track on the album), ‘Dogs of Chernobyl’ and ‘Sacrifice’ to the supersonic ferocity of ‘Célebutante’, ‘Mission to Mars’ and ‘We’ll Be Back’ .
Lyrically, the album is rather one dimensional and hardly possesses any of frontman Dave Mustaine’s lyrical genius, so don’t go in for the lyrics.
 Nonetheless, the album is excellent and very well executed, hitting all the right notes while bringing back the old with the new by bringing in the right amount of nostalgia which has the right amount of freshness.
Score: 9.5/10