Italy, the Euro 2020 champions, entered the qualification play-off semi-final showdown at the Stadio Renzo Barbera as overwhelming favourites, but were the victims of a massive upset that will be remembered for a long time.

North Macedonia's Aleksandar Trajkovski scored a dramatic stoppage-time winner, leaving Mancini on the touchline with his head in his hands. North Macedonia had rarely had a sight of goal over the previous 90 minutes.

Following Italy's triumph at the European Championship last summer, Mancini secured a new four-year contract extension with the national team, but he is no longer certain about his status as coach.

Before making any decisions about his future in the dugout, the 57-year-old thinks he needs to take some time to reflect.

"We will see. Now I feel too disappointed to speak about my future, we will see," Mancini told Rai Sport post-match.

“I’m sure this team has a great future. I’m supporting these players now more than ever."

Italy captain Giorgio Chiellini added: "We're hugely disappointed. We played well but a goal was missing. I'm proud of my teammates. We're devastated. I hope that Mancini will remain."

Chiellini was also asked if he now plans to retire from international football, to which he replied: "This isn't the right time to say if I've played my last game for Italy."

The Azzurri coach believes in his team and does not believe the final outcome really reflects their efforts.

"I think that if last July was the best thing I had professionally, I think this is the biggest disappointment," said Mancini. "You can't say anything. This is football. Sometimes incredible things happen and tonight it's It happened.

"Maybe we shouldn't have been there, but we did everything to try to win. It is difficult to comment on this match, with a goal that arrived after the 90th minute without conceding anything else.

"On a human level, I can say that I love the boys more tonight than in July. It is a time of great difficulty and therefore my affection is even greater."