Russia’s Ukraine invasion seems to have united US citizens across partisan, ideological and demographic lines. Most Americans unanimously support economic sanctions on Russia and strongly condemn Vladimir Putin’s unprovoked action. But a majority of them don’t want the US to get directly involved in the conflict.  

However, there’s a third of Americans who think the US should take direct military action “even if it risks a nuclear conflict with Russia”, according to a new survey by the Pew Research Center. According to the Pew research, undertaken while Russia’s military invasion was in its third week, nearly half of Americans (47%) approve of the Biden administration’s handling of the Russian invasion, while about two-in-five (39%) disapprove; 13% say they are not sure.

Some defence analysts at the Pentagon say if Russia fails to capture Ukraine, and its casualties and costs go on escalating, Putin could brandish threats to use nuclear weapons to tame determined Ukrainians. U.N. Secretary-General António Guterres has warned that nuclear conflict was "now back within the realm of possibility" as Putin already mentioned using nuclear forces. If Putin feels cornered by the West, due to the barrage of economic sanctions, he could use nukes out of sheer desperation.

Such nukes could be “tactical nuclear weapons”, as opposed to the “strategic” ones which can have huge impacts across Europe or beyond. A tactical nuclear weapon could be launched on a simple missile or even fired as an artillery shell with its impact confined in Ukraine. Putin's aim could be just to scare Ukrainians and shatter their morale.

Putin knows very well that a large nuclear weapon – say as big as 10 kilotons – could have a huge impact that could also affect Russians and will be self- defeating in the long run.

It has to be seen whether the use of nuclear weapons in Ukraine will draw US and NATO allies directly into war.

READ MORE: 

https://www.newsweek.com/third-americans-risk-nuclear-war-russia-ukraine-poll-1688473

https://www.bbc.com/news/world-60664169

https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2022-03-17/putin-is-likely-to-make-nuclear-threats-if-war-drags-u-s-says