Neeraj Chopra: From buying a low quality javelin for Rs 7000 in 2014 to ruling the world of javelin 

The year 2018: After legendary Milkha Singh (in 1958), a young athlete from Haryana's Khandra village Neeraj Chopra won gold in both Commonwealth Games and Asian Games in the same year.

In 2021 Tokyo Olympics, javelin thrower Chopra became the second ever India sportsperson - after shooter Abhinav Bindra in 2008 Beijing - to win an individual Olympic gold. 

The year 2022: Chopra added another feather to his cap by clinching a silver in the ongoing 18th World Athletics Championships in USA on Sunday. Chopra became the second Indian athlete, after Anju Bobby George in 2003, to won a medal in the world athletics.  

The 24-year-old athlete is now ruling the world of javelin, but the road to excellence was full of bumpy rides for him.

It was only eight years ago, when Chopra was able to buy his first-ever personal javelin and that too of a low quality. He was able to train with the world-class equipment only after he joined the national camp. 

"I am from a humble farming family. Though making ends meet was not a problem, we had a limited resources. It was only in 2014 that I was able to buy my first javelin that too of mediocre quality. I bought two for Rs 14,000 while the international-level javelin cost around Rs 1 lakh. I was able to train with top-quality javelins when I joined the national camp," Chopra had said. 

"Initially it was tough. There was no bus connectivity from my village to the stadium in Panipat, and at that time I didn’t have a vehicle. It used to take me hours commuting. But, it's because of these hardships that I have been able to achieve this much. Frankly speaking, this is just the beginning. I have to achieve a lot."

Chopra’s best throw of 88.13m came in his fourth attempt that got him silver, while Grenada's Anderson Peters won gold with a throw of 90.54m. Czech Republic's Jakub Vadlejch won bronze (88.09m).

Chopra’s next destination is Birmingham 2022 CWG -Hoping another podium finish.