By Sourav Rai

“During the third wave, Asha workers served the people of this country by risking their own lives, but still they haven’t got their basic salary from the government. Our workers have died serving people. Their families have still not received any compensation from the authorities,” rued Shweta Raj, General Secretary of the Dilli Asha Kamgar Union.

Asha workers or the Accredited Social Health Activists are part of the National Rural Health Mission of the government of India. These workers are trained volunteers, and they work as a critical interface between the community and the public health system.

When the Asha scheme first came into being, the workers were initially involved in providing care to pregnant women, carrying out the polio vaccination drive of the government, encouraging family planning in villages, improving sanitation facilities and many other activities. But over time, the roles and responsibilities of these Asha workers increased. They reached the peak of their activity during all the three waves of the pandemic. The workers today claim that they are overburdened with work, and they are victims of harassment and government apathy.

Watch - https://youtu.be/V2k7l_c783A

“Over the years, what we have noticed is that the centre and the state governments are over-burdening Asha workers. All schemes of the respective governments are being taken at the grassroots level to the people by Asha workers. During the pandemic, Asha workers have been at the forefront of carrying out Covid duties. They are public healthcare workers, but still, the government calls them volunteers. They don’t treat them as health workers because of which they don’t get a regular salary. They get 3000 rupees every month as an incentive based on a point system. What can one do with 3000 rupees? Even that 3000 rupees gets cut if they don’t fulfil the 12-point criteria of the government. And sometimes when they fulfil the criteria, even then, they don’t get paid every month,” said Shweta Raj.
 
Watch - https://youtu.be/TjUyF6QNGdU
Watch- https://youtu.be/1ZmOiE_uhzY
Watch- https://youtu.be/XjW52Yp7Kl0


Full Story - https://theprobe.in/more-work-no-pay-asha-workers-say-they-are-pushed-to-the-wall/