This photograph was clicked in 1885 and it portrays three women doctors who graduated and became the first woman doctors of their respective countries (India, Japan and Syria). They came to procure their degree in Western medicine. 

The photograph shows Anandibai Joshee (on the left) from India who graduated in 1886, Kei Okami (center), from Japan, who graduated in 1889 and Sabat Islambooly (on the right), who is from Syria and she graduated in 1890. 

The story behind this photograph brings out the strong bond between these three woman that's intertwined with the history of Drexel’s College of Medicine, Pennsylvania.  Many other institutions was formed And one such institution was Woman's Medical College of Pennsylvania (WMCP), which is one of the world's first medical schools exclusively for women. These three women attended and graduated from this institution.

These three woman have posed in their own respective traditional attires and this shows that the school is open to all irrespective of their culture or race, all are given opportunity to learn from the school. 

Anandibai Joshee, graduated in 1886, was determined to become a doctor and broke down all the barriers to achieve her vision. 

Born in Poona, Bombay in 1865, and being married at the age of nine to an older person who was her teacher. At the age of 13 she became pregnant and gave birth to the baby. But the baby didn't survive for long and passed away after 10 days from birth. She believed that with proper medical care her baby boy would have survived and this gave rise to her desire to become a medical professional. 

Her husband being her supporting pillar at her educational pursuits helped her to achieve her desire. 

In 1883 she said good bye to her home and went to America. She also achieved her MD as well. Her success was congratulated by Queen Victoria and also by the Empress of India.

Life became harsh to her and she didn't have an opportunity to practice her profession. She died at the age of 22 when she contracted with tuberculosis. And this happened after one year from her graduation. 

Sources  https://drexel.edu/legacy-center/the-collections/research-guides/joshee/