The movie is dark, leaves you thinking at one level and depressed at the other .
The dark/ ugly side of relationships, where people who love u or whom you loved once can change. Change for love/lust/ money .
They might love you but when it comes to saving their backs, they can throw u off the cliff. 
That’s another story, what we want to focus on is Deepika’s characters mental struggle.
She has witnessed her mother’s depression and then suicide . She holds her father responsible and every time she feels wronged she remembers that trauma. 
So does it affect your relationships . 

Researches have concluded that childhood trauma, whether it's because of physical, emotional, sexual abuse or accidental wise can raise distress in adulthood relationships. Neglecting the child or constantly criticising them disrespectfully can induce similar behaviour in their adulthood. 

Childhood trauma is not uncommon. In the United States, more than two-thirds of children have experienced some form of trauma, according to the Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration (SAMSHA).

Across the globe, 1 in 8 adults have reported childhood sexual abuse, and 1 in 4 have reported physical abuse, reports a 2017 study.

Without the safety net of a secure attachment relationship, children grow up to become adults who struggle with feelings of low self-worth and challenges with emotional regulation. They also have an increased risk of developing depression and anxiety. Impacts of childhood trauma in adult relationships are explained below. The develop unhealthy attachments, where they repeat the same behaviour as seen in their childhood or become insecure and stop trusting or become clingy and let people hurt them . 

Childhood trauma can impact relationships because we learn about emotional bonds early in life. So, when people we depend on for survival hurt us or aren’t present, it can impact how we view human connection.

Read more below

https://psychcentral.com/blog/how-childhood-trauma-affects-adult-relationships#what-is-childhood-trauma

https://www.psychologytoday.com/us/blog/experimentations/201707/6-ways-rough-childhood-can-affect-adult-relationships?