Stroke patients nowadays are widely increasing when compared to the past decade. Among our family friends or members we would know at least one person who might have experienced with the condition. Now a new form of technology could help us estimate the brain age in stroke patients. 

The study that was presented recently at the European Stroke Organisation Conference found the radiomics that's a kind of image quantifying technology this can extract biomarkers from an MRI scan and they can be used for stroke surveillance and this is useful for predictions for post stroke recovery. 

Dr. Martin Bretzner, lead author of the study and a researcher from Harvard Medical School said in a press release, that, “Age is one of the most influential determinants of post-stroke outcomes, but little is known about the impact of neuroimaging-derived biological ‘brain age,” 

“Our results show that quantifying relative brain age in stroke patients can be beneficial in assessing a patient’s brain health globally, and useful in predicting how well the patient will recover from a stroke. It would also be very easy to communicate on this biomarker with clinicians and patients, as everyone instinctively understands the negative implications of an accelerated brain aging process.” 

What the study shows 

For research purpose Bretzner and colleagues had reviewed more than 4000 stroke patients in Europe and in the US. 

The radiomics is what is used to estimate the brain age. Radiomics is an upcoming technology that uses mathematical analysis to extract certain biomarkers from neuroimages like from MRI scans. 

The stroke patients who had higher approximate brain age than the actual chronological age were more likely to have diabetes, hypertension or a history of smoking or with a history of stroke. 

Those who were detected with older brain age didn't have positive post stroke outcomes when compared to those who had a younger brain age. 

With this research the experts state that by using radiomics help to estimate the actual age of a person's brain the physicians could learn how the resilient the brain is to factors like time and cardiovascular risk factors. 

Sources - Healthline