The earliest symptoms were overlooked by Lisa Choi. After all, the 53-year-old business analyst was a fit vegetarian who cycled regularly and avoided high-fat meals. She wasn't your normal heart attack sufferer.Choi, who lives in Seattle, worked 60-hour workweeks that included evenings and weekends. She had to meet tight deadlines while while overseeing sophisticated digital initiatives. This burden was nothing out of the ordinary for her. "I work in a high-stress environment... "I'm typically on high alert," she admits.

She didn't start paying attention to her symptoms until many months ago, when she began to feel an anvil-like weight on her chest. In the hospital, it turned out that she had a tear in her artery.
According to experts from the World Health Organization (WHO) and the International Labour Organization (ILO), three-quarters of a million individuals die each year as a result of ischemic heart disease and stroke caused by working excessive hours. (Ischaemic heart disease, sometimes called coronary heart disease, is characterised by constricted arteries.)
To put it another way, overwork kills more people than malaria. This is a worldwide health concern that has to be addressed by individuals, businesses, and governments alike. And if we don't address it, the situation may not just persist but worsen.


How can too much work damage your health?

Researchers methodically evaluated data on long working hours, defined as 55 hours or more per week, health consequences, and death rates from most of the world's countries from 2000 to 2016, and published their findings in the journal Environment International. To isolate the pure impacts of overwork on health, the researchers accounted for characteristics such as gender and socioeconomic position.

Overwork is the single most important risk factor for occupational disease, accounting for nearly one-third of the burden of disease associated to work, according to the study. "I was quite astonished as an epidemiologist when we calculated these data," says Frank Pega, a WHO technical officer and the paper's primary author.“I was extremely surprised by the size of the burden.” He describes the findings as moderate, but clinically significant.

Source BBC.com