External Actors in the Afghan Problem
continues...

In late 1970s, Saudis were facing severe criticism for their close alliance with the US both from other Arab governments, not in line with the US policies, and from Iran. After the 1979 Iranian revolution, the Saudi Iranian relations became hostile. Saudis used the Soviet invasion of Afghanistan as a springboard to portray their commitment to Muslim causes and brush up their Islamic credentials. 

In early 1980s in close cooperation with the US, Saudi Arabia provided a large amount of financial aid for military and humanitarian purposes to Afghanistan. 

Several humanitarian organizations of Saudi Arabia and other Gulf sheikdoms opened offices and ran clinics and hospitals in Pakistan. Saudi Arabia was able to develop direct relations with some resistance groups especially Abdul Rasul Sayyaf and Hekhmatyar. 

During the first Gulf war, the support of Iraq by Hekhmatyar and Sayyaf brought the ire of Saudis and they worked on new proxies. In 1991, about 7,000 tons of captured Iraqi arms and ammunitions including heavy equipment were delivered to the Mujahideen. Pakistan had close working relations with all Sunni groups, most of them based in Peshawar. They never tried to bring Shi’a groups into the coalition to avoid friction with Saudis.

 After the cut off of US funds, Saudis became the largest provider of funds for Afghan adventure. The direct role of Saudi Arabia also dramatically increased. Chief of Saudi intelligence, Prince Turki developed close relationship with the ISI and some Afghan factions.

 He travelled frequently to Islamabad and Afghanistan. In July 1996, he visited Kandahar and Islamabad and was actively involved in the planning of fresh Taleban offensives in close consultations with the ISI. Later, the warm relations between the Taleban and Saudis hit the bottom when the Taleban refused to cooperate on Osama Bin Ladin issue. Saudi Arabia also funded many charitable institutions and religious seminaries in Pakistan. Saudis funded the most conservative individuals and organizations in Afghanistan and Pakistan. 

Ironically, most of them had turned against the Saudi royal family and openly criticized the royal family for its close relationship with the US.

To be continued...