Last week, the 23rd China-EU summit was held via video link. Chinese President Xi Jinping "candid" discussions with President Charles Michel of the European Council and President Ursula von der Leyen of the European Commission. Premier Li Keqiang co-chaired the meeting with Michel and von der Leyen. ( https://www.globaltimes.cn/page/202204/1257432.shtml )

This was for the first time in two years that such a meeting was held. The last was at the height of the first wave of Covid-19 in June 2020. According to the Chinese media, China and the EU spoke of increasing mutual understanding and resolved to have communication channels open between the two.

China doesn't want to lose its advantage on trade with the EU, and any downturn in relations will affect it badly. For instance, China's trade with the EU in 2021 was $828.1 billion, up 27.5 percent from 2020.

But after the exit of German Chancellor Angela Merkel late last year, the relations between the bloc and China have gone down. Conflict with Russia over Ukraine and the US pressurising the EU to lean on China has not helped matters. Moreover, the tensions in the South China Sea with several of European countries sending their warships on patrol have left the relations between the two rather frayed. ( https://www.dw.com/en/eu-china-summit-focuses-on-war-in-ukraine-amid-tense-relations/a-61327951 )

The state-controlled Chinese media is full of stories on how China and the EU can blaze a new trail of cooperation without any outside power (read US) influencing the relations. This could act as a "guarantee to world peace and stability" as an editorial in Global Times put it.

But it is easier said than done for Europe as suspicions about China remain. For instance, China refused to condemn Russia on invasion of Ukraine and in return blamed the U.S. for the tensions. China accuses the US of using Ukraine to contain Russia and also using Russia to contain Europe.  Both sides disagreed on the issue of Russian invasion of Ukraine at the summit. ( https://america.cgtn.com/2022/04/02/the-heat-china-eu-summit-leaders-disagree-over-response-to-ukraine-conflict )

According to China in cooperation with the EU, it could build a consensus on multilateralism, global governance and climate change.