In May 2021, Javed Mohammad, a 56-year-old social activist, was sitting down to eat with his family when news of the Sulli deals app—an application to auction Muslim women online—flashed across the television screen, abruptly ending the dinner time banter. 
The next person to speak was Mohammad’s daughter Afreen Fatima, a 24-year-old student activist, who told her father that she was among the scores of Muslim women whose names and photos were shown on the app. 
There was shock and concern, but her family were acquainted with the online abuse and castigating coverage she received from pro-government media after Afreen started speaking about the persecution of Indian Muslims under the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), inviting the wrath of the right-wing establishment. Together, father and daughter, along with the rest of the family, living in Prayagraj in southern Uttar Pradesh, decided to pursue the legal route to hold the people behind the app accountable. A few days later, Afreen joined other women in persuading the Delhi police to register a criminal case against them. 
Her sister and father for once agreed on something, Sumaiya Fatima, the youngest of Mohammad’s five children, smiled and recalled in conversation with Article 14.  She spoke of the many disagreements her father and sister had on everything from the curtains in their house to whether the Congress Party had ever been a force for good in the country. 
Even though they are both vocal critics of the BJP and its majoritarian politics, what they believed and how they expressed themselves were different. 
“He was Afreen appi’s (sister) biggest supporter, but he would worry if something about her went viral. He would tell her to take care of what she said and how she said it. He would tell her the same thing can be expressed differently,” said Saumaiya. “He has always been very protective of me, but he is the proudest of Afreen appi.”
The UP police arrested Mohammad in connection with the violence that erupted in Prayagraj on 10 June, as rallies protesting the remarks made by BJP spokesperson Nupur Sharma against the Prophet Mohammad were breaking out in UP. 
Read more - https://article-14.com/post/jailed-for-being-the-mastermind-of-prayagraj-violence-muslim-activist-was-known-for-keeping-the-peace-630c26819919b