Prominent Indigenous elder and community leader Kathy Mills is being remembered for her life's work as an advocate and artist following her death last week.

The Kungarakan and Gurindji elder born in Katherine died on Sunday aged 86.

Ms Mills was known for her advocacy work for Aboriginal people in the Northern Territory, as well as a distinguished career as a songwriter and poet.

Daughter June Mills said her mother had a powerful memory of local bloodlines and culture.

"She'd take you on a journey, a beautiful journey, and I've witnessed that so many times … I'm going to miss that," Ms Mills said.

"I used to tease her and say she was a computer before we had computers.

Several of her daughters gained local prominence performing her songs as the Mills Sisters, known for their 1986 recording of Ms Mills's poem Arafura Pearl.

Her death comes three weeks before the premiere of a performance based on her story Jarradah Gooragulli – Dance of the Brolgas – in Darwin.

Ms Mills held various leadership roles in the Northern Territory community, including helping to start Darwin's oldest alcohol rehabilitation service, co-founding the Danila Dilba Health Service and, in the 1980s, being the first woman elected to the Northern Land Council.

Critical of what she said was disappointingly slow work towards reconciliation, Ms Mills used her national profile to push for stronger action than token gestures for Aboriginal people.

"She had steely determination," June Mills said.

"Whether it was Stolen Generation or health or alcoholism, there was lots of things she championed throughout her life.

"And once she set her teeth into something, she persevered until she got what she wanted to happen."

Ms Mills was named the NAIDOC person of the year in 1986, was inducted into what were then the NT Indigenous Music Awards (now National Indigenous Music Awards) Hall of Fame in 2005 and became a member of the Order of Australia in 2019.

Earlier this year, Ms Mills was also awarded an honorary doctorate from the Northern Territory's Batchelor Institute in recognition of her work.

Olympian and former politician Nova Peris said Ms Mills was a "formidable community leader [and] an amazing singer".

https://www.abc.net.au/news/2022-04-26/kathy-mills-indigenous-advocate-o