When 13 Ukrainian soldiers were defending Snake Island in March, Russian forces told them to lay down their weapons. In response, the Ukrainians said “Russian warship, go fuck yourself!”.

This maritime call sign has its precursor in the naval drama U311 Cherkasy (2019), directed by Tymur Yashchenko.

U311 Cherkasy was the first Ukrainian film about the annexation of Crimea, and the film has been important in shaping the national identity.

It is a film about a little minesweeper: the U311 that took on the might of the Russian navy and gave them the proverbial finger.

Ukrainian film industry
After the heady days of Alexander Dovzhenko and Dziga Vertov in the 1920s, the Ukrainian film industry subsumed into the overwhelming Soviet Cinema machine.
Over the past 100 years, there have been rare glimpses of great films from the country by such masters as Sergei Parajanov, Kira Muratova and Sergei Loznitsa.

From 2014, Ukrainian cinema has been in an active process of recovery, with increased financial support from the government since 2017.

It is a modest film industry, with considerable documentary production. But there has been a steady increase in the number of quality mainstream feature films released theatrically. More than 24 films were released in 2020.
It is worth noting President Volodomyr Zelenskyy features in three of Ukraine’s top ten box office hits.

A touchstone of resistance
U311 is based on real events during the annexation of Crimea and the capture of the Ukrainian navy in March 2014.

In the siege of Ukraine’s Southern Naval Base, all Ukrainian naval vessels were blocked from entering the Black Sea at the narrow entrance of Lake Donuzlav. The blockade was initiated by the flagship of the Russian Black Sea Fleet, the missile cruiser Moskva.

This would be the same warship told where to go by the Ukraine defenders of Snake Island.
In 2014, the Ukrainian navy was terribly outnumbered. They surrendered one by one to the Russians.

Read more: https://theconversation.com/u311-cherkasy-the-little-minesweeper-of-a-ukrainian-film-that-gave-the-finger-to-the-russian-navy-186559