By Nisha Qureshi For decades the financial capital of India – Mumbai – was also the advertising capital of the country. However, with time, Delhi/NCR and Bengaluru have also grown to be important markets for advertising in recent years and the shift is for all to see.A number of traditional advertising agencies remain headquartered in Mumbai because big advertisers like Hindustan Unilever, Mondelez, Reckitt Benckiser, Tata Group, Procter & Gamble, Johnson & Johnson, Godrej Group etc have their main offices in the city. But Gurugram is no less. It houses brands like Coca-Cola, Marico, Nestle, Perfetti Van Melle, and GlaxoSmithKline. The NCR region also has brands like Maruti Suzuki, HCL, Bharti Airtel. Most of these being legacy brands, they come on the list of top 50 advertisers in the country. Bengaluru, on the other hand, is home to a number of new-age advertisers from ed-tech categories like Unacademy, and Byju's, who are spending between Rs 300-850 crores on ads. It is also home to brands like Ola, Myntra, Amazon, Samsung, Licious etc. Therefore, the question that arises is whether the country even has an ‘advertising capital’ anymore.Asheesh MalhotraAsheesh Malhotra, Executive Director, Rediffusion, said today there is not one but three advertising capitals which are Delhi, Bengaluru and Mumbai. He said almost 80% of advertising revenues are coming from these three cities.“Delhi and Mumbai would today be equal when it comes to revenue. However, in terms of the creative pool, I still feel Mumbai still attracts more talent. This is also because the film industry is in Mumbai. Bengaluru has really come of age and we have people who improved a lot with people like PG Aditya - the IAA Creative Agency Leader of the Year.”Kumar AwanishKumar Awanish, Chief Growth Officer, Cheil India, said that there definitely is a shift and it is because of multiple reasons.Read more: https://bestmediainfo.com/2022/10/decentralisation-of-creative-prowess-how-mumbai-is-being-challenged-as-ad-capital