In an endeavour to save birds in the national capital, Rakesh Khatri, the capital's resident, has built over 2.5 lakh nests in his life, which has garnered him the title of 'Nest Man'.

In the pursuit of this mission, he educates people to build nests and has trained more than lakhs of students to date where he also teaches them about climate change and e-waste recycling to make it a wholesome effort for environment protection.

Khatri strode to Delhi in the 1980s when industrialisation and urbanisation were at their peak. He noticed that the cheerful birdsongs that charmed his childhood were missing, so he decided to build nests to bring them back.

His early attempts failed, and everyone began to laugh at him however, he continued striving until he succeeded in using bamboo sticks; he installed the nests in different parts of his colony.

Within a few days, at least four sparrows took refuge in those nests, which fascinated Khatri and encouraged him to continue with the process on a larger scale.

Recognition:

By far, Khatri has earned a total of five awards for the initiative, including Limca book of record for the maximum no. of handmade nests and workshops, 2019 and the International Green Apple Award in the house of commons London for best practices on sparrow preservation and others.

His other distinction includes Limca book of record for theatre on climate change with 112000 students in 12 languages, Earth day star declared by 190 countries association Washington DC and one Rakesh Special chapter in 4th standard English book of ICSC board this year, and National Award for best performance with children through creative and traditional methods, World Book of records for 125000 nests of jute and tetra pack.

Khatri has been toiling in the field of environment conservation for the past two decades. “We need nature, nature doesn’t need us. If we wish to live here happily, we will have to work together with nature,” says the conservationist.


He strongly believes that manufactured nests can help birds sustain themselves in cities ridden with concrete jungles and help bring back the mesmerising birdsongs that used to enthral our childhood.