How to apply for liquor license and types.
How to apply for a liquor license?
To apply for a liquor license, you must first decide which type of license you're applying for and what you plan to do with the license. There are several types of licenses available, and the type you select depends on what you will use the license for. 
For example, opening a liquor store, you need to apply for a liquor store license. You can also apply for a wholesale liquor license if you plan to sell alcohol to other liquor stores or restaurants. You need to apply for a bar license if you are opening a bar. If opening a restaurant serving alcohol, you need to apply for a restaurant license. You must submit the application fee, an application form, and the required documents to apply for a liquor license.
Types of Licenses:
Any qualified individual may receive a liquor license based on the following categories. As follows:
1.    Temporary License.
Temporary licenses with a six-month expiration date are as follows.
a.     Restaurant-cum-Bar.
This permit is valid for retailing foreign alcoholic beverages in any restaurant or bar with an adjacent dining area.
b.    Hotel-cum-Restaurant-cum-Bar.
This permit is valid for the retail sale of foreign alcohol for use in on-site consumption at any hotel, restaurant, or associated bar.
c.     Hotel-cum-Bar.
This license is provided for the retail sale of foreign alcohol for consumption within any hotel or hotel with a bar attached.
 
2.    Regular License.
The following groups are eligible to apply for ordinary licenses.
a.     For existing department stores with a minimum floor size of 1,500 square feet and departments for the retail sale of various commodities, a license for the retail sale of beer, wine, and low alcoholic beverages (LAB) for consumption off the premises is required.
b.     Licensing for the retail sale of foreign alcohol for use inside theatres, clubs, canteens, Dak-bungalows, railway refreshment rooms, dining cars, steamers, customs airports, or any other public resort and entertainment location with an accompanying bar.