The Probe Investigation

By Prema Sridevi

In what can be called perhaps one of India’s largest public health data breaches, lakhs of personal health data, including Covid data of citizens was found to be breached online. This is perhaps one of the most glaring data breaches in the country that exposes the gross incompetence of our security infrastructure in the handling of sensitive personal data of the citizens.

The Probe started its investigation after receiving leads from a source about Covid-19 data of citizens being directly uploaded by many District health authorities – on their website – without taking any security precautions.

We first visited a government website of a district in UP, just a few kilometres away from Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath’s constituency Gorakhpur. We are withholding the information of the district and the website to protect the data of the citizens, but here is a glimpse of what these district authorities uploaded on their website. The image that you see below is one of the compromised pages of the district authorities website, where one can see PDF files being directly uploaded that contain all vital details of the citizens of the district.

On clicking the unprotected PDF links, we found staggering personal details, including mobile numbers and critical health parameters of thousands of district residents. The serial numbered data has details of the case ID of the patient, the full name and address of the patient, the age, gender, the date of sample collection, the RTPCR test results and what’s worse are the records also showed the mobile numbers of these patients. We found thousands of names and mobile numbers of unsuspecting citizens on many such websites. The reports also enlist the name and signature of the Chief Medical Officers of the District.

Not just in the BJP ruled states, we found such data breaches in Congress, and TMC ruled states as well. This massive data breach cuts across party lines and shows how porous our public health IT infrastructure is and how this permeability compromises citizens’ data privacy and personal security.

To be continued...