Former CM Laxmikant Parsekar who succeeded Manohar Parrikar (when he became a Defence Minister) quits the party to contest as an independent, former Tourism Minister Dilip Parulekar almost quit before being appointed Goa BJP’s first Vice President and not to forget the former Panaji MLA and Parrikar scion Utpal quitting the party to contest as an independent – pretty sums up BJP Goa’s first list of candidates.

One thing is pretty clear. The BJP in Goa is relying more on turncoat imports from Congress and INC over the past 10 years and division of votes due to new entrants TMC and AAP and multiple ‘fixed’ surveys to seek the majority.

BJP’s first list took a painfully long wait and appeared a day after the promised date. The list reflects the tussle between strong satraps and party leadership fighting to control the party.

For starters, the power couple Babush and Jennifer Monserrate who defeated BJP’s strong grassroots leaders in neighbouring Panaji and Taleigao as Congress candidates in 2017 are the official BJP candidate this season. This also puts paid to former Goa CM Parrikar’s son Utpal’s plans to wrest his father’s legacy.

The other power couple waiting to emerge in North Goa will be Vishwajeet Rane re-contesting from Valpoi whole his wife Dr Divya Rane being fielded in Poriem against his father. Rane Jr thus avoided a confrontation against his father with whom he was involved in an ugly spat just weeks ago.

While the state BJP leadership is allowing the power couples to balance each other out (though Babush has his candidate officially in more than 2 seats), the fact remains that the ruling troika of Organisation General Secretary Satish Dhond, State President Sadanand Shet Tanavade and CM Dr Pramod Sawant has further decimated the old guard of Parrikar era. Parsekar (despite his two Zila Parishad candidates defeating official BJP candidates last year) has been overlooked instead of party-hopper Dayanand Sopte. In Canacona, regular turncoat Dy. Speaker Issidore Fernandes cherished by Parrikar has made way for Ramesh Tawadkar not liked by the late Parrikar.   

Winnability, not loyalty nor ideology leads BJP into Goa Assembly Elections of 2022.