By Vivek Gupta

Chandigarh: Close on the heels of AAP lawmakers caught reprimanding government officials in Ludhiana and Jalandhar, another controversy rocked the four-month-old Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) government in Punjab. 

The medical fraternity of the state is outraged after Punjab health minister Chetan Singh Jouramajra made the vice-chancellor (VC) of Baba Farid University of Health Sciences lie down on one of the soiled patient beds during his inspection of the university’s constituent medical college in Faridkot on Friday. 

Felt insulted by the minister’s act, VC Dr. Raj Bahadur resigned from the post a day later on Saturday as his admirers - from politicians to journalists to all weather experts - blamed the minister for “overstepping” and sought his apology.

This also prompted Amritsar’s Government Medical College director-principal Dr. Rajiv Kumar Devgan and medical superintendent, Dr. KD Singh, to resign from their posts.

In the first place, the key focus of the issue should have been on the pitiable condition of the state’s health institutes, so much so that patients are made to sleep on damaged and soiled mattresses despite the annual budget of the Punjab health department running into over Rs. 3,000 crores in the past several years. 

VC’s admirers spinned the AAP minister’s act in another direction, with the opposition milking it as another example of “high-headedness” and “cheap” PR stunt of the new AAP government in Punjab. 

But the issue in hindsight is much deeper than AAP’s optics or din over VC. Punjab’s health system is literally on its deathbed and the remedy is missing.

Only 29% come for treatment in Punjab govt hospitals

75th round of data of the National Sample Survey conducted between 2017-18 and released in 2019 revealed that just 29% of the state's 3 crore population goes to government hospitals for treatment. 

A whopping 66% of the state population are forced to go to private hospitals for treatment, while 5% are dependent on hospitals run by charitable trusts/NGOs, the data revealed.

As per the data, the percentage of the population seeking treatment in private hospitals is the same in both urban and rural areas of the state. 

Read more
https://www.newsdrum.in/national/punjab-vc-row-aap-government-must-stop-optics-better-focus-on-constructive-changes-68609