We have been familiar with ''Wordle" through various social media feeds even if we haven’t used the app. With the use of various colours we have probably seen green, yellow and white blocks that comes along with its scores on the screen by the end of the game. 

Experts states that through these games, the brain receives its daily exercise and they are very good for our cognitive health. 

They can also help boost your mood. 

What is ‘Wordle’? 

Wordle is a word game that presents you with six empty rows of five blocks. For each turn, you must guess what five-letter word fills the blocks. If you get the letter and its placement correct, it shows up green. 

If you get the letter correct but its placement is wrong, it turns yellow. 

Incorrect letters are gray. 

For the next row of blocks, you must take what you’ve learned from your first attempt and make another guess. 

The object of “Wordle” is simple: You must guess what the word is before you run out of rows, ideally in as few tries as possible. 

The game gives you one new word per day. And, if that’s not enough for you, there are also several copycats out there, like “Absurdle” and “hello wordl.” 

Why games like ‘Wordle’ are good for cognitive health 

According to Dr. Douglas Scharre, a neurologist and director of the Center for Cognitive and Memory Disorders at The Ohio State University Wexner Medical Center, solving a daily crossword puzzle or playing a word game like “Wordle” is great for brain health. 

“It’s important to challenge yourself to new problem-solving exercises,” said Scharre. 

“Puzzles and games, especially those involving novelty, can stimulate and challenge key parts of the brain, including reasoning, language, logic, visual perception, attention, and flexibility,” he said. 

Scharre noted it’s also a great way to help prevent a decline in your cognitive health as you age. 

He said the sharpness of a person’s cognitive skills falls into the “use it or lose it” category, and that most cognitive scientists believe that the more you exercise your brain, the healthier it will be. 

Read more - https://www.healthline.com/health-news/why-your-wordle-obsession-may-actually-be-a-healthy-habit