I always thought Insurance was a cover. Now learning that it was a cover for a fraudType of case: Availment and utilisation of ineligible ITC of GST, without underlaying supply of goods/services.Name of taxpayer: 15 insurance companies, multiple intermediary marketing companies, multiple NBFCs and banks (more entities likely to be revealed as investigations progress) Detection: Rs 824 cr (approximately)Recovery: Rs 217 cr (paid voluntarily in cash under section 74 of CGST Act,2017)Issue: Based on specific information against M/s ICICI Prudential Insurance regarding availment of ineligible credit, investigation was initiated. The investigations revealed that M/s ICICI Pru had availed and utilised ineligible ITC without underlaying supply of goods/services. They have voluntarily paid Rs 100 cr in cash under section 74(5) of CGST Act,2017 during the investigation.Certain common intermediaries were also identified and based on the same and aspect of rewards passed on to nominees of agent who are selling policies individually, further intelligence was developed. The officers of Mumbai Zonal Unit visited the premises of a number of corporates- insurance companies, intermediary marketing/branding companies, NBFCs and banks, in multiple cities under search/visit mode. As a result of the same, similar cases of availment and utilisation of ineligible ITC without receipt of underlying supply of goods or services were detected. The investigations revealed that these entities had formed an arrangement to pass on ineligible ITC in the guise of marketing services and fraudulent invoices were raised by following a systematic modus in connivance with each other.It appears that the modus was systematically planned and executed mainly at the behest of insurance companies. Statements of key persons involved indicates that the insurance companies have been executing the modus since the inception of GST. So far, GST evasion to the tune of Rs 824 cr approx.  has been unearthed and various insurance companies who have availed and utilised the said ineligible ITC have voluntarily paid a total amount of Rs 217 cr in cash under sec 74(5) of CGST Act, 2017.Further investigations are in progress.