With the FIFA World Cup 2022 being hosted in this gorgeous Arab country, Qatar stadium grounds are all set to echo with roaring cheers of football fanatics coming from all over the world. Quite an unprecedented event for the country, Qatar is leaving no stone unturned to make it as memorable as possible. So, if you are a football fan visiting the country or someone on a leisure trip, here’s a complete guide for things to do in Qatar which you can keep handy.
The 2022 FIFA World Cup will be held in Qatar from November 20 to December 18. Eight world-class stadiums — Lusail, Al Bayt, Al Rayyan, Al Thumama, Al Wakrah, Khalifa International, Education City and Ras Abu Aboud — are being prepared before the matches unfold.
However, amid all the hullabaloo, if you are landing in the country for the first time, or even otherwise, you would want to visit some noted places or explore around. Whether it is visiting the Museum of Islamic Arts, Katara Cultural Village, the dazzling Souq Waqif neighbourhood, or indulging in luxury shopping at the City Centre in Doha, there is something that suits everyone’s preferences.
And, speaking of luxurious indulgence, Qatar is one of the most stylish and vibrant countries in the world, full of staying and dining options. Ranging from lavish five-star hotels and resorts to phenomenal restaurants, you can be totally spoiled for choice not just in the capital city of Doha but wherever you go.
Considered the jewel in the crown of Qatar, this is one place that should be on the list of every traveller visiting the country. It is located on an island bordering Doha’s Corniche, specifically built for the purpose.
Designed by Pritzker Prize-winning architect I.M. Pei, the Museum is an architectonic marvel spread across four floors. It houses a heritage library with a collection of 21,000 books including 2,000 rare editions in both Arabic and English. The Museum of Islamic Art also holds permanent and temporary exhibitions and contains a gift shop as well as a café. A chic French cuisine restaurant called IDAM by celebrated chef Alain Ducasse sits on the fifth floor too.
https://www.lifestyleasia.com/ind/travel/destinations/things-to-do-in-qatar-while-you-are-there-for-fifa-world-cup-2022/