By Kingshuk Nag

Family planning programmes in India began when the five-year plans came into force in India. When the five-year plan was enforced in 1952, India became the first country in the developing world to start a government-funded family planning program. The reason for implementing such a state-sponsored plan was to slow down the population growth to drive economic growth prospects for the country. 

India’s population has been rapidly growing despite such a unique initiative. Policymakers are fraught with a twofold problem: First, there has been a fall in death rates, but there was no commensurate decrease in birth rates. Second, the increase in population has negatively impacted the economy. 

Death rates in India started declining from 1921 onwards, as reflected in the Census of India, but the fact that there was no corresponding decrease in the birth rates added to India’s poor performance on many indicators, like human development, health, poverty, unemployment to name a few. 

Unfortunately, even a century later, India continues to grapple with the problem of population explosion. The recently released United Nations World Population Prospect report stands testimony to India’s precarious problem. Even when the report notes that the global population is growing at its slowest rate since 1950, it states that India is one of the eight countries globally where more than half of the projected increase in the global population up to 2050 will be concentrated. The report also mentions that India is expected to surpass China as the world’s most populous country. 

As per the UN report, India’s current population stands at 1.412 billion (2022) compared to China’s 1.426 billion. To control its population, China has implemented many tough and restrictive measures, including a one-child policy between 1980 and 2016 to make most Chinese families have a single child. After the census data showed that the prohibitive measures had yielded results and there was a steep decline in birth rates, once again, the country announced that it would allow couples to have up to three children. 

Read more
https://theprobe.in/should-the-number-of-lok-sabha-seats-be-increased-in-india/