Winston Churchill, widely recognized as one of the finest leaders of the twentieth century, is said to have suffered from bipolar illness. Churchill's doctor, Lord Moran, diagnosed a middle-aged Churchill with bipolar illness after noticing several signs such as sadness, suicidal intent, mania, and a diminished need for sleep, according to his biography Winston Churchill: The Struggle for Survival. Churchill's "black hound" was a term he used to describe his bouts of deep and extended despair. According to Churchill's wife Clementine, during these periods of prolonged manic depression, he had little energy, few hobbies, lost his appetite, and had problems focusing. Churchill, on the other hand, had abnormally high levels of activity and restlessness after his "black dog" had grown quiet, often beginning to work at 8 am and ending work at around 2 am. Unfortunately, his "black hound" reappeared after only a few months away, and these periods of unusual productivity faded. Despite the challenges imposed on by his chronic melancholy, Churchill ignored his illness and lived a life of purpose and accomplishment.

Churchill acknowledged his mental illness and contributed to the betterment of many people's lives. In 1911, Churchill overcame despair and began preparing the United Kingdom for war. After noticing Germany's rising belligerence and foreseeing an impending confrontation, he founded the Royal Naval Air Service (World War I). Churchill kept his "black dog on a leash" and maintained British morale high during World War II. Churchill authored 43 books while serving as acting Prime Minister, displaying an unique burst of energy, activity, and restlessness.

Churchill's incredible achievements show that people with bipolar disorder may still achieve great things in today's society. Churchill's tenacity in the face of his despair and effective utilization of his mania might inspire others and demonstrate that it is possible to overcome obstacles and achieve greatness. Churchill's tenacity in the face of his illness aided the Allies in World War I, the Allies in World War II, and his creative pursuits. Winston Churchill, like Buzz Aldrin, Theodore Roosevelt, Ted Turner, and a slew of other historical individuals who battled bipolar disorder, conquered his manic-depressive condition and had a happy life.