Before 2010 Chelsea had won 3 Premier League titles, and City had none. Fast Forward to 2022, City is on the verge of winning their 6th League title, whereas Chelsea is still stuck on 5. The club from Manchester is in a league of its own and is threatening to run away with the league title yet again. 

Yesterday's match against Chelsea was evident of the fact. City were so dominant that Chelsea and Tuchel were left gasping for thin air. Chelsea was sent to London with their tails firmly between their legs, and the 1-0 scoreline flattered Tuchel's side.

At the beginning of December, the race for the PL title was heading for a grandstand finale, with Liverpool and Chelsea looking to dethrone the reigning champions, Manchester City. 

The winter period is the most significant in the PL because it can make or break a team's campaign. Similar to the story of last season, City was just outstanding in the winter period and has not yet dropped a single point since November. Whereas their challengers, Liverpool and Chelsea, have had a winter to forget. 

Following City's 11th straight win in the PL, the race for the PL title seems done and dusted. City has cemented a 13 points lead at the top, following their victory against second-place Chelsea. 

To win the Premier League in January without a recognized striker is a massive achievement for Guardiola and his boys. The footballing world was skeptical about City's chances of winning the league without an out-an-out-striker, but Guardiola has yet again come up with a winning formula. Pep's ability to turn an adversary into opportunity makes him "One of the greatest managers" in football.

Aston Villa's marquee signing, Coutinho, had a dream start to his Villa career, assisting one and scoring the vital equalizer against his fiercest rival, Manchester United. Having spent most of his playing days in Liverpool, scoring an all-important goal against his old foes will surely boost his confidence. Although Coutinho could not star at the Camp Nou, the Brazilian is familiar with the PL, and Villa could be the perfect club for him to reignite his career.