An appeal by UN Secretary-General Antonio Guterres to Russian President Vladimir Putin to call back his troops from Ukraine in the name of humanity has once again exposed the failure of the world body to enforce international peace. 

"President Putin, in the name of humanity, bring your troops back to Russia," Guterres said, speaking after an emergency meeting of the Security Council on Ukraine.

The consequences of a war would be devastating for Ukraine and far-reaching for the global economy, he added.

Instead of forcing the countries, especially those in conflict, to maintain peace, the United Nations is pleading for de-escalation of hostilities.

Putin has so far ignored all such appeals and doesn’t seem to be in mood to oblige any.

In the past many years now, the world body has failed in its peacekeeping missions with Syria and Afghanistan being the recent examples.

The United Nations was founded in 1945 after the Second World War by 51 countries committed to maintaining international peace and security, developing friendly relations among nations and promoting social progress, better living standards and human rights.

Currently made up of 193 member states, the UN and its work are guided by the purposes and principles contained in its founding Charter.

The UN accomplishes this by working to prevent conflict, helping parties in conflict make peace, deploying peacekeepers, and creating the conditions to allow peace to hold and flourish. These activities often overlap and should reinforce one another, to be effective.

The UN Security Council has the primary responsibility for international peace and security. The General Assembly and the Secretary-General play major, important, and complementary roles, along with other UN offices and bodies.

But that is only on paper now as evident from recent events. It is high time that the UN follows its mandate to ensure international peace. 

In the present Russia-Ukraine crisis, it needs to prevail upon Putin to withdraw his troops and accept the sovereignty of Ukraine.