Jurgen Klopp, the manager of Liverpool, gave Steven Gerrard some advice before he began his coaching career.
Gerrard began teaching at the Liverpool academy a few months after retiring from the game, quickly progressing to coach the club's Under-19s team. But, just over a year later, the former Reds midfielder took over as manager of Rangers, and his success in Scotland convinced Aston Villa to come calling in November.
The former midfielder claims that he sought Klopp's counsel before embarking on his adventure and that the German coach’s remarks were crucial.
"That was one of the most important things for me when I decided to become a coach, I wanted to come back to the [Liverpool] Academy and I wanted to speak to Jurgen Klopp for that bit of advice," he said to Liverpool Echo.
"His advice to me was: 'Don't go in with the name on your back. I've seen so many ex-players who played at a decent level just automatically think that they can become a good coach or a good manager. It's important that you go and do two years with Liverpool's youth teams away from the cameras, go and make mistakes, find out how you want to play, try formations, try tactics. Work out what team of people you need around you because you'll be good in some areas, you won't be good in others and get your team. Then you will know. You'll get the right feeling and then an opportunity will come. And then you can decide what you want to do from there.'
"That is exactly how my journey started. I have not always wanted to do this; it has just fallen into place."
Gerrard took over as Ranger’s manager in the summer of 2018, and in his first two seasons, he led the Ibrox club to second-place finishes.
For Gerrard, the 2020-21 season was a huge success, as his team won the Premiership for the first time in ten years.
The Gers went undefeated in the regular season, finishing 25 points ahead of Celtic.
However, Gerrard resigned the following season when he took over as manager of Aston Villa, replacing Dean