Where is Scholz?” (#woistscholz, the hashtag) has been doing the rounds on social media in Germany, referring to Chancellor Olaf Scholz’s silence and invisibility on crucial national and international issues. 

Within two months after he was sworn in, replacing the charismatic Angela Merkel, his government, along with him, is slipping in opinion polls. Just 43% of the participants in the polls, conducted by pollster Infratest Dimap, said they were happy with his performance. And not just him, his party, the center-left Social Democrats (SPD) also seems to be losing popularity (22%). More surprisingly, Merkel’s center-right party Christian Democrats (CDU), which lost the election last year, is re-gaining public support (27%).

In the last few weeks Germany has been criticised for its refusal to deliver arms to Ukraine and perceived soft stance towards Moscow. The chancellor has also failed to speak clearly on the issue of sanctions on Russia, if it invades Ukraine. The ambiguity has irked the US, Germany’s long-term friend; Scholz is visiting the US to restore his country’s damaged credibility this week.  

On the domestic front, the country is going through the worst energy crisis in recent times, largely caused due to a shortage of gas supply from Russia. Nord Stream 2 gas pipeline could have eased the pressure on gas price, but it was not allowed to start operation due to the Ukraine crisis. The government could not vaccinate the targeted 80 per cent against Covid-19, leading to over 100,000 cases a day. Despite this, compulsory vaccination though mooted could not be placed for voting in the parliament. Above all, protests against Covid restrictions reached fever pitch in some German cities. 

The situation turned worse in critical moments due to Scholz’s poor communication skills which the media portrayed as “art of disappearance” and him “almost invisible, inaudible”. His predecessor Merkel didn’t have superior oratory skills, but she never failed to make her point and assert strongly in hours of crisis.   

READ MORE:

 https://www.dw.com/en/new-german-government-sees-drop-in-opinion-polls/a-60652398

https://www.theguardian.com/world/2022/feb/04/almost-invisible-germans-lose-patience-with-olaf-scholz-as-he-hesitates-on-ukraine

https://www.france24.com/en/live-news/20220203-where-is-scholz-germany-s-new-chancellor-under-fire