Frontier Gandhi – Remembering Bharat Ratna Abdul Gaffar Khan on his death anniversary

'Badshah Khan Hospital, the hospital built by the people of Faridabad with their own hands was named after their beloved leader Khan Abdul Gaffar Khan' – Reads the inauguration plaque at the Faridabad’s civil hospital – which was inaugurated by then Prime Minister Jawaharlal Nehru on June 5, 1951.

In December 2020, when the Haryana government decided to rename the Badshah Khan Hospital in Faridabad after former Prime Minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee, the people of the New Industrial Town (NIT) in Faridabad were up in arms and eventually, the government had to roll back its decision.  

Even after seven decades of partition, for the people of NIT (in Faridabad), who have roots at the six districts of North West Frontier Post – Bannu, Dera Ismail Khan, Peshawar, Hazara, Kohat, and Mardan – late Abdul Gaffar Khan is still their beloved leader. He passed away at the age of 87 — on January 20, 1988.  

Late Abdul Gaffar Khan, who is popularly known as Frontier Gandhi, was a great advocate of Hindu-Muslim unity in the Indian sub-continent. He was conferred with the Bharat Ratna in 1987.

“Abdul Gaffar Khan was the beloved leader of all the people, who came from the North-West Frontier Province (NWFP). Many of our elders were part of the organisation Khudai Khidmatgar (servants of God) formed by him in the pre-Independence era,” says 81-year-old Mohan Singh Bhatia, the president of the Bhatia Sewak Samaj, a Faridabad based organisation of the people from NWFP.

“After 1947, whenever Abdul Gaffar Khan used to visit Delhi, he wouldn’t go without making a visit to Faridabad. He had a close association with the people of Faridabad,” says senior journalist Sushil Bhatia, 54. “I got an opportunity to meet him in 1980 in Faridabad. It’s been almost four decades, but I still remember each and every moment of that meeting by heart. He was a charismatic leader and for us, who have roots at North West Frontier Post, Badshah Khan is our identity.”

His love for India, a Pakistan citizen after partition and resting place in Jalabad (Afghanistan) made him the people’s Badshah Khan of the sub-continent.