By BestMediaInfo Bureau 
Nickelodeon continues to dominate the kids' genre in India. It has a soaring reach of over 44 million kids’ each week, enjoying the highest viewership market share of 31% (YTD) within the category.
The franchise also leads across co-viewing target Groups, establishing the love for the brand among kids and their families alike.  The network further continues to top the charts with Nick leading the category with a 15% market share.
Boasting of the largest repository i.e. over 900 hours of homegrown content in the country, all Nickelodeon characters from Motu Patlu to now the Bhoot Bandhus have each gone on to become icons of today, making the Nickelodeon franchise an integral part of every kid’s daily lives.
Speaking about the category leadership and the responsibility that comes with it, Nina Elavia Jaipuria – Head, Hindi Mass Entertainment and Kids TV Network at Viacom18, said, “Kids have come out of a very difficult and daunting period and are slowly adapting to the post covid realities of going back to offline learning and having more social interaction. As a responsible storyteller, Nickelodeon has always been there for kids through these tough times, nurturing and inspiring them through our stories and characters who have become their best friends and confidantes. We are committed to taking kids into a world filled with fun, imagination, and laughter, making sure they are stress-free and in high spirits. It is this deep understanding and connection with kids who are at the centre of our universe that has allowed us to garner immense love from them as well as the trust of their parents.”
She further said, “Responsible fun entertainment and putting kids first is the resultant patronage received from kids and parents, has also made us a preferred partner of choice for advertisers who are also seeking to meaningfully engage with children and their families.”
Read more
https://bestmediainfo.com/2022/08/nickelodeon-continues-to-dominate-the-kids-genre-in-india