Kriol interpreter services are still used regularly across Australia. Interpreters hold an important role in communities for many Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples.

"A Kriol interpreter is needed in the local courts," Ms Tkac said.

"Darwin use them, (as well as) Katherine and Alice Springs — they're also used in the Supreme Court and in hospitals as well."

Ms Tkac is an Anindilyakwa Interpreter from the Groote Eylandt archipelago and is based in Darwin with the Aboriginal Interpreter Service.

She interprets for a wide range of service providers in topics such as health, education, and law at the Local, Supreme and Children's courts.

The service collaborates on recordings with other agencies and mining companies, and produces a range of aids and resources, including DVDs, animations, driving apps and video interpreting.

Ms Tkac completed a diploma in interpreting and has accreditation with the National Accreditation Authority for Translators and Interpreters.

"I fell in love with my mother's language; I had grown up and I felt like I'd missed out a lot," she said.

"I was living in Darwin from zero to 15, and I moved as a 15-year-old back to my community, and I had to learn (the language).

"I did speak it every now and then, but I wasn't quite fluent; I moved back home I lived there 25 years and now I'm fluent speaker."

"It's a rewarding feeling; it's so great that they can understand "

The service is vital to the 80 per cent of Aboriginal people in Australia who speak Aboriginal English or Kriol, which has been recognised as a language since the 1970s.

"You want to get the right message across," Ms Tkac said.

"They do have high legal words and — as a Kriol interpreter — you think, 'How can I explain this by meaning-based interpreting?'."

"That is why we need interpreters like Kriol. It doesn't matter what language; a lot of people speak a lot of Kriol nowadays."

What is Kriol?

Kriol interpreter services are still used regularly across Australia.

Interpreters hold an important role in communities for many Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples.

As Ms Tkac explains, Kriol is "a language that was formed because of colonisation".

https://www.google.com/amp/s/amp.abc.net.au/article/101005782