By Srinand Jha

By the look of it, the Vande Bharat trains will transform the rail travel experience in India. Along with its existing network of 67,368 route kilometres, passenger trains in India log an approximate Passenger Kilometre or PKM (unit of measurement equivalent to transporting a passenger over a distance of one kilometre) of 600,000 million. Of this, 300,000 million constitute non-suburban traffic, while the reserved category amounts to 100,000 million. 

If the target of running 400 Vande Bharat trains by 2025 is achieved, these trains will have a capacity of an annual PKM of 153,300 million - or 150% more than the current capacity for air-conditioned train travel. 

In other words, there will be enough space for passengers wanting to travel in the air-conditioned and energy-efficient as Vande Bharat trains will be dashing along India's rail network by 2025 at speeds of 160 kmph. Passenger trains currently clock a maximum speed of 130 kmph and run at an average speed of 52-55 kmph. 

Unfortunately, the picture is much less rosy, given the past record of the Indian Railways in the delivery of projects. 

The national project to build the Udhampur Srinagar Baramulla Rail Link (USBRL) has been gathering huge time and cost escalations, while frequent reports of tunnel construction disasters have been coming in. 

The Mumbai Ahmedabad High-Speed Rail project has similarly been accumulating time and cost overruns because of the Maharashtra government's unenthusiastic response. Contracts have yet to be awarded for the train collision avoidance systems, named as the Kawach - announced by Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman in this year's budget. 

While the Union Government claims to have pumped in multiple times more funds towards upgrade of tracks and signalling systems since 2014, a qualitative change in the train travel experience has not been visible. 

In a recent report, the Comptroller and Auditor General slammed the Indian Railways for failing to ramp up train speeds despite having spent an estimated Rs. 250,000 crores on infrastructure improvement.

Read the full story here:- https://www.newsdrum.in/analysis/vande-bharat-good-idea-bad-planning-34973.html