By Amit Sengupta

Political patronage to criminals and a growing culture of political extremism has made Kannur the hotbed of political murders and revenge killings...


In a grotesque history replete with bloody feuds and revenge murders, the killing fields of Kannur, relatively peaceful for a while in recent times, is yet again simmering with the blood of political opponents, bitterly fighting over contesting terrain.

In this recent case of murder, it is yet again the ancient rivalry between the RSS and the CPM, the latter, a ruling and powerful force; the former, still desperately trying to regain a stronghold, which never belonged to them in the first instance – despite decades of violence and bitter hostilities on the ground.

On February 21, at Thalassery, near the picturesque sea with its old fort in Kannur, K Haridasan, a fisherman and a CPM activist was killed in cold blood in what was yet another instance of a gang killing. Some RSS and BJP activists were soon picked up by the state police following the murder of Haridasan. The Kannur police was quick to admit in a press conference that evidence pointed towards the involvement of the RSS and BJP activists in the murder.

In what could be seen as a predictable pattern – a method to the madness in the region – Haridasan was hacked in his house, and one of his legs was chopped off, and he bled to death. This may seem very shocking to a non-Keralite, but Kannur is not new to such acts of butchery.

In the aftermath of the murder, as the Kerala Chief Minister faced heat over the rising number of political murders in his own backyard, the CM appealed for peace and calm. He said in the state assembly that there were concerted efforts to create violence in Kannur. But his partymen were fuming with rage over Haridasan’s murder.

The CM’s party, CPM, has in the past been accused of carrying out political murders. The district of Kannur is known for such tit-for-tat murders, counter murders......

Read full column here: https://theprobe.in/kerala-political-murders-why-kannur-continues-to-