When an artist is welcomed into the monumental interiors of a structure such as the Zeitz Museum of Contemporary Art Africa for a retrospective of their work, it suggests the levels of recognition they enjoy. The gallery, crafted from old dockyard silos in Cape Town, South Africa, opened in 2017. It is built to have such a pedigree; a solid foundation for African artists to gain global visibility and scrutiny.Tracey Rose is a South African multimedia artist whose practice spans performance, film and video installation, sculpture, photography, print and painting. Such a range is head-spinning. Most artists become distinctive for mastering one or two media at most, but not Rose. Equally impressive is her litany of pet subjects: race and deracialisation, South African coloured (mixed-race) identity, radical feminism, parenthood, post-apartheid South African politics, outrage and shock.The mid-career retrospective took up all of three exhibition floors of the imposing, six-storey edifice. No such extensive showing of Rose’s work had ever been mounted.Apartheid’s hangoverThe title of the retrospective, Shooting Down Babylon, foregrounds an unambiguous political intent, a continuing debunking of bastions of white supremacy, racial oppression and other structures of global inequality. The reference to Babylon, a famous biblical city, says it all. Rose is shooting holy cows. She rails stridently at the many forms of sociopolitical ills of the world.Get news that’s free, independent and based on evidence.Get newsletterAt first it might appear that the artist, born in 1974, is a cut-and-dried political artist hacked from the bleak cloth of anti-apartheid struggle. But there is an unexpected twist. Her rebellion spills over into the usual patriarchal sites of dominance; she criticises multiple vices in society as a whole, questioning, questing, denouncing with a considerable spewing of outrage and bile.Read more: https://theconversation.com/tracey-rose-renegade-south-african-artist-understanding-her-30-years-of-outrage-191375