1. New York Times

Times Square is named after The New York Times. Originally, it was known as Longacre Square until the Times moved there in 1904. Longacre square doesn’t quite have the same ring to it, does it?

2. Pizza History

You probably know NYC is famous for pizza. However, did you know it’s home to the first-ever United States pizzeria? Lombardi’s opened in 1895 and still serves some of the best pizza in New York City. (Bonus fact: The price of a pizza slice and a single subway ride has remained relatively equal more than 50 years resulting in what economists call “The Pizza Principle.” Weirdly, when the price of one goes up so does the other.)

3. Linguistically Diverse

More than 800 languages are spoken in New York City. Yes, 800! As a result, it is the most linguistically diverse city in the world.

4. Brooklyn Bridge vs Tower Bridge in London

Which landmark is older? Brooklyn Bridge or the Tower Bridge in London? If you guessed the Brooklyn Bridge, you’re correct.

5. Honking is Illegal

If you’ve ever been to New York City, you’ve no doubt heard a lot of cars honking their horns. However, honking your horn in NYC is actually illegal. That’s one of the facts about New York City that doesn’t’ seem true but is!

6. First Capital of the U.S.

New York City, not Washington D.C., was the first capital of the United States of America.

7. Going Topless

It’s not illegal to go topless in New York City. Don’t worry, though, people prefer to wear their clothes here!

8. NYC is Electrifying

The Empire State Building gets hit by lightning around 23 times a year. Talk about electric!

9. Diversity

New York City has the largest Jewish population outside of Israel, the largest Chinese population outside of Asia, and the largest Puerto Rican population of any city in the world.

10. No Farting in Church

Going topless may be legal in New York City but farting in a church could result in a misdemeanor. This is due to a law stating a person is guilty of disruption or disturbance of a religious service, funeral, burial or memorial service