U.S. News & World Report has released its annual list of Best Diets Overall, and while the order is slightly different from last year's list,the top five picks of the 40 diets evaluated remain largely the same.

The experts ranked the diets in nine different lists, including Best Diabetes Diet,Easiest Diets to Follow, and Best Plant-Based Diets.But the main list that took all seven scored categories into consideration was the Best Diets Overall.To compile this list, U.S. News & World Report combined the panel's ratings of the seven categories, giving more weight to the long-term weight loss and safety category scores.

Here are the diet plans that took the top five spots for overall best diets—and three that ranked lowest.

1.Mediterranean diet: The Mediterranean diet ranks at the very top yet again this year—the fifth year in a row, in fact.The eating pattern has long been considered the gold standard for nutrition, disease prevention,wellness,and longevity. 

2.DASH diet: Slotting in at number two once again on the list is the DASH diet. DASH is an acronym for Dietary Approaches to Stop Hypertension, but it's not just for people with high blood pressure.DASH is promoted by the National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute, which is part of the National Institutes of Health. 

3.Flexitarian diet: In a nutshell, a flexitarian diet is primarily a vegetarian diet,with the occasional inclusion of animal protein.

4.The MIND diet: Moving up from the fifth spot from last year's list,MIND combines aspects of the Mediterranean and DASH diets to create an eating pattern designed to focus on brain health. Even though its main targets include preventing dementia and age-related cognitive decline, 

5.Mayo Clinic diet: Staying tied in the fifth position, the Mayo Clinic diet is from the highly esteemed US academic medical center that focuses on integrated health care, education,and research.

6.TLC diet: TLC stands for therapeutic lifestyle changes, and it's breaking its way into the top five this year. Published by the National Institutes of Health,TLC advocates for taking control of your heart disease risk by adopting a heart protective lifestyle.

Read more at https://www.health.com/diets/best-diets-for-2022