The caste system is one of the major threats to the rights of Indian citizens. It is perhaps the world’s longest surviving social hierarchy and was developed by the brahmins to establish to maintain their superiority. The caste system is further divided into four varnas. At the top are the brahmins, next are the Kshatriyas, underneath them are vaishyas, and finally at the end of the list are Shudras. 
The "untouchables" or Dalits, who make up a fifth category outside of the traditional varna system, are frequently given chores that are too ritually filthy to qualify for participation. They are not acknowledged in society for the work they do or for their caste rank. Due to their perception as a polluting group by members of higher castes, Dalits are also referred to as "untouchables." 
Around 240 million Dalits live in India, making up nearly 25% of the country's total population. They are a socially exploited, oppressed, and downtrodden group. Since the beginning of civilization, people from higher castes have oppressed the lower castes, but even now, people from lower castes still deprive people from fundamental chances and torture and exploit people from lower castes. 
India has more than 160 million people that are categorised as "untouchables." Even in the twenty-first century, "untouchable" people are restricted to the lowest positions, and they constantly worry about being humiliated, physically assaulted, or even raped by upper caste people who will get away with it to keep them in their place.  According to data provided at the International Dalit Conference, about 90% of all poor Indians and 95% of all illiterate Indians are Dalits. 
As retaliation against their male family members or relatives who are believed to have committed some type of offence or offences against any members of the higher caste, Dalit women are sometimes raped or beaten. Thus to safeguard the dalits' rights and provide them with relief when those rights are violated, we need stricter legislation. The judiciary, which has the authority to defend people's rights, should take considerable action to address the issues encountered by the Dalits.

Image Source: ipledge