1. SCALING INGREDEINTS:  It is very important to scale or measure ingredients accurately when making yeast bread.

2. MIXING AND KNEADING DOUGH: Dough must be mixed properly in order to combine the ingredients uniformly, distribute yeast and develop gluten.
Dough mixing methods:
Straight dough method : all the ingredients ate just combined and kneaded
Sponge method: flour, yeast, sugar, water- kept for sponge then it is used.
Flaky dough method: it is same as rolled in dough method.

3. FERMENTING DOUGH:  Fermentation is the process by which yeast converts sugar to alcohol and carbon dioxide. During fermentation the dough is allowed to rise.
Fermentation is resting of whole dough but proofing is resting of shaped dough           (balls and knotted). The whole yeasted dough is kept in a oiled container to allow fermentation in a warm place it reaches double in size.

4. PUNCHING DOWN DOUGH: After fermentation, the dough is folded down to expel and redistribute the gas pockets with a technique known as punching down or knock back. Punching down help to even out the dough’s temperature and relaxes the gluten.


5. ROUNDING PORTIONS: The portions of dough must be shaped into smooth, round balls in a technique known as rounding. Rounding stretches the outside layer of gluten into a smooth coating.

6. SHAPING PORTIONS: Lean dough and some rich dough can be shaped in a varieties of form – large loaves, small loaves, dinner rolls etc.

7. PROOFING PRODUCTS: Proofing is the final rise of shaped yeast product before baking. Temperature should be 35-46 degree centigrade. Proofing chamber- temperature and humidity can be controlled with a special cabinet known as proof chamber. Proofing should be continued until double in size.

8. BAKING PRODUCT: As yeast bread bake, a variety of physical, chemical changes occurs. Oven spring- when yeast rolls or dough is lace inside a hot oven, suddenly yeast product experiences a rise in size, is called oven spring.
The temperature increases, yeast dies, gluten fiber becomes firm, and the starches gelatinize.

9. COOLING AND STORING FINISHED PRODUCT: Once cool, should be stored at room temperature and on freeze if need to be stored for longtime.