Musical theater has never been afraid to experiment, trying different methods of acting and telling stories. In the very same vein, neither has heavy metal been afraid to try on different things. A composite of many genres, metal has blended together practically every genre in the book from jazz avant-garde, blues, pop, all kinds of classical and folk, rockabilly, electronic, industrial etc. Both are an acquired taste and so it stands to reason to say that a mixture of both would be large enough to bring down all of Broadway to its knees.

Metal for its part has heavily embraced theater, whether it is Ozzy Osbourne’s wild theatrics, Iron Maiden’s highly grand larger than life shows, Black Sabbath’s doom filled theatrical music, symphonic metal and power metal acts like Nightwish, Blind Guardian and Kamelot going ultra theatrical or the scary, Satanic spectacles of black metal bands like Mayhem.

However, this embrace has been only one sided, because while theater has accepted rock, capturing the wild side of rock in the glam rock musical ‘Rock of Ages’ or using the catalog of Green Day’s ‘American Idiot’, it has not embraced heavy metal, and it is funny because there is no genre out there as suited to theater as heavy metal.

Whether it is concept albums or just standard albums with no narrative, metal is not lacking theatrics be it Judas Priest’s double disc LP ‘Nostradamus’ or Iron Maiden’s ‘Senjustsu’. Some of the most creative, original, skilled and ambitious instrumentalists and composers are in heavy metal, and many metal vocalists have vocal abilities that surpass standard human abilities.

So why hasn’t the world of musical theatre tapped this tapestry of rich music? Perhaps it is the admittedly shocking/controversial material that many bands of the genre explore, or the fact that metal explores the darker side of music. Perhaps it is also a lack of understanding about metal music and the stereotypes associated with it, causing people to view the two as mutually exclusive. 

This phenomenon becomes even more interesting, because a surprising number of metal acts have covered well-known Broadway classics like ‘Phantom Of The Opera’.