NEW DELHI: Drawing from available data, the latest Human Development Report 2021/22 highlights with much concern that estimates show that more than seven lakh people die by suicide each year, predominantly in low- and middle-income countries, accounting for 1 in 100 deaths globally and is cited to be the second leading cause of death among those aged 15–29 years.
Moreover for every death by suicide, there are at least 20 more attempts, “an expression of severe human suffering”, the report states. Although more men than women die by suicide, more women attempt suicide.
With October 10 observed as “World Mental Health Day”, this data analysis released as part of the HDR by the United Nations Development Programme last month gains significance as it puts the focus on mental health and its importance in enabling and acheiving human development goals.
While dwelling on the factors aggravating stress and mental health issues, a chapter “Unsettled Minds in Uncertain Times” also reflects on the magnitude of the problem that was already big in the pre-Covid world and has only grown as the world emerges from the shadows of a pandemic that is still not over. Before the Covid-19 pandemic one person in eight worldwide, or 970 million people, suffered from a mental health disorder, more women than men.
Morever, mental health problems are also the single leading cause of disability worldwide. Children, adolescents and older people are most affected. “WHO estimates that globally, approximately 20% of children and adolescents and about 15% of people aged 60 and older suffer from mental disorders,” it said. The most common mental disorders are anxiety affecting 300 million people worldwide and depression affecting 280 million people.
According to the report, most of these people live with their condition without ever receiving treatment. Much more work is needed to statistically embrace the concept of mental wellbeing, develop adequate measurements for it and offer universal services to enhance it.
Read more - https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/india/more-women-attempt-suicide-more-men-die-by-it-hdr-data/articleshow/94771162.cms