The craze for Bollywood is gone these days whilst the International cinema is booming like anything.

Is it real that the standards of Bollywood is constantly declining? Yes no doubt in it. How?

Lets find it out together, the factors for the downfall of Bollywood.

CONTENT IS 'THE KING'

As we all are aware with the fact that how much significance the content holds for any movie. But Bollywood has constantly failed to come up with the strong engaging content. Whereas international cinema including Hollywood and south indian industry has continuously come up with 'out of the box' plots and content which has kept the expectations of audience high.

Another important aspect is 'originality' of content which Bollywood couldn't deliver. In recent times,we have seen how it has just restricted itself to making  the remakes of popular Hollywood and South industry movies. Like 'Lal singh chadha'  an upcoming movie is a hindi remake of 'Forest Gump' and i am sure you all know from where the story of 'Kabir Singh', ' Jersey' and 'Vikram Vedha' comes this list just goes on and on. It seems like creativity of Bollywood exists no more.

UNIVERSAL APPEAL

The conception of 'Universality' has been always a missing factor in the Bollywood
Since its inception,it has kept itself limited to indian context and masses,thus missing the wider appeal to the people. In contrast, International cinema has kept increasing its horizon of appeal which can be seen in Hollywood's most of superhero movies where when any dangers comes it is shown as a threat to humanity not to a particular community or country.

PROFESSIONALISM

It is significant for any field including cinema too. But over the years the professionalism has seen stark decline here. From casting impotent actors to giving direction to amateur person just because he/she is son or daughter of some famous celebrity has contributed in declining its standards. In contrary, in Hollywood even famous actors have to give auditions to test their suitability for that particular role.That is how it has soared high.

Now,Bollywood is passing through difficult phase but if fixes its loopholes will definitely rise once again.