After Russia’s brutal attack and pushed by Vladimir Putin’s increasingly irrational behaviour, troops from the US and Canada have started joint arctic training drills, keeping an eye on a possible attack via the arctic route. Some defence experts believe the North American arctic region remains relatively unprotected and Russia could easily launch an attack through this vulnerable zone.

In the past few years, Russia has increased its military presence in its land bases in the arctic region and tested some long-range missiles. Two years ago, they had even sent a pair of Blackjack bombers, capable of carrying nuclear warheads, across the North Pole from western Russia into Canadian airspace.  

But despite the warnings posed by these bombers, both US and Canada had so far neglected their arctic provinces. Now the two countries are developing military bases, deep water ports and installing the latest warning systems against possible air attacks. The US has especially taken steps to strengthen its ARCTIC EDGE training program involving members of the US National Guard, Army and Navy in the country’s northernmost edge in Alaska.   

According to a report in the New York Times, around 8,000 troops are participating in the military exercise to rebuild their fighting capabilities in the sub-zero temperature of the arctic. The cold-weather skills of the soldiers had been neglected in the past few decades as the current American troops are now more familiar with battles in the arid zones of Iraq and Afghanistan.

Fighting battles in the extreme cold can be challenging. During World War II, Allied Forces, comprising British and French troops, had failed miserably in arctic Norway. Simple movement of troops and logistics can be tough as supplying food, water and fuel is a challenge in freezing temperatures. Rushing for a routine ambush or firing an assault rifle needs a lot of grit and courage where just a minute’s carelessness can lead to a fatal frostbite, or hypothermia, that can even lead to the amputation of a limb of a soldier.

READ MORE: 

https://www.nytimes.com/2022/03/27/us/army-alaska-arctic-russia.html

https://www.newsweek.com/us-military-arctic-training-sends-message-russians-1686954

https://www.bbc.com/news/world-us-canada-60837944