Fashion is currently one of the largest industries. Style has become the most important methods for people to show their personalities and set themselves apart from others. Clothing has evolved into much more than just means of covering our nakedness; it has also evolved into one of the key means through which an individual can express themselves.

With each passing New Year, new fashions emerge, all attempting to be more vibrant and stylish than the ones seen the previous year. 

Now let’s talk about 5 indian fashion designers who should be on your radar. 

1- Anita Dongre

Born in Mumbai, Anita has been a mainstay in India's fashion scene with her clothing and jewelry designs. She has a flagship store in New York City and also is a designer for many celebrities such as Beyoncé, Sophie Turner, and Priyanka Chopra.

2- Ranjana Khan

Born in Mumbai, she launched her jewelry brand in 2008, which featured incredible detailing using materials like feathers, crystals, and more.

3- Bibhu Mohapatra

The New York-based fashion designer draws inspiration from his time growing up on the east coast of India in Odisha. His mother first taught him how to sew and after he moved the U.S., he launched his eponymous label.

4- Tarun Tahiliani

Tarun specializes in bridal couture and started his namesake label in 1995. He uses rich fabrics to make his creations and he also has his own jewelry line.

5- Saloni Lodha of Saloni

Saloni's dresses feature some mesmerizing and bright textiles. In 2011 she launched her eponymous label inspired by the vivid colors she remembers seeing on her grandmother's sarees and the Jain temples she visited.

6- Ritu Kumar

Ritu's label has been around since 1969. She started the brand in a small village near Calcutta and now has almost a hundred retail stores across the country.

Designers continue to promote the significance they know people put on fashion, and people continue to follow designers' every move in the fashion world, therefore fashion will maintain its dominant position in society for a long time.