1. Seoul: The Dazzling Capital City
The dazzling capital city will impress you with its dizzying mix of modern architecture, party vibes, pop culture, beautiful parks & glittering promenades making it one of the most famous places in South Korea and the best cities to visit in South Korea.

2. Jeju Island: A Stunning Island
This stunning island just 85 Kilometers off the coast is one of the most beautiful places in South Korea and one of the most famous places in South Korea.

3. The Korean Demilitarized Zone (DMZ): Engage With Modern History
Amongst famous South Korea attractions, The DMZ is one of the most famous places to visit in South Korea to get a better understanding of the conflict between North and South Korea & the current state of affairs.

4. Busan: Something For Everyone
If you’re visiting places in South Korea then not addisng this place to your list would be unfair. This second largest city of South Korea is known across the world for hosting Asia’s largest International film festival.

5. Gyeongju: A Treasure Trove Of Cultural Sites
One of the best places to go in South Korea, the coastal city of Gyeongju, often called an open-air museum, is one of the best things to do in South Korea to discover its traditional roots and rich heritage.

6. Dadohaehaesang National Park: The Largest National Park In Korea
One of the most besutiful tourist destinations in South Korea, it is the largest National Park in Korea, this slice of paradise covers 1700 large and small islands and some rock structures. One of the most scenic and islands is the Cheongsando island considered one of the best places to visit in South Korea for it surreal landscapes and the slow city movement.

7. Pyeongchang County: Paradise For Hikers
This is one of the must visit places in South Korea to experience tranquillity and awe-inspiring scenic beauty of the best places to visit in Korea. Located in the Taebaek Mountains, this picturesque county 180 Kms away from Seoul hosted the prestigious Winter Olympics in February 2018