​The observance of 5th Rashtriya Poshan Maah commenced with the inaugural event at Plaza, Sector 17 on Thursday. Nitika Pawar, IAS, Secretary Social Welfare Women & Child Development, Chandigarh Administration inaugurated the event. The kite flying ceremony marked the launch of the one-month programme meant to bring awareness regarding nutrition among children. Different departments are taking part in the programme. Chandigarh Institute of Hotel Management (CIHM) and Food Safety and Standards authority of India (FSSAI) took part in the event with display stalls.
​The attendees took part in Snakes and Ladders game coordinated by the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER). The students of Govt College of Yoga, Sector 23, demonstrated a Yoga session on the occasion.
​On the 1st Day of 5th Rashtriya POSHAN Maah activities like home visit, lecture on vertical garden, pledge on Poshan, pot making, awareness on medicinal plants, home visit, lecture on vertical garden, awareness on personal hygiene and hand wash activity were conducted in all 450 Anganwadi Centres.
​Govt College of Yoga, Sector 23, organised a session to bring awareness regarding apt nutrition for children. Students from various govt schools are taking part in the event so as to lay stress on the need for awareness on proper nutrition among the children as well as parents.
​The NSS Volunteers of GMSSS-37-B, Sri Guru Harkrishan Senior Secondary Public School, Sector 40-C, Chandigarh, GSSS-MM Town, GMSSS-26, GMSSS-Kaimbwala, GMSSS-10, GMSSS-20-D, GMSSS-Khuda Ali Sher, Sri Guru Gobind Singh Senior Secondary School, Sector 35-B, GMSSS-Dhanas and GMSSS Raipur Khurd took a poshan pledge to mark the inaugural day.
​The NSS volunteers of GMSSS Behlana organised an awareness rally on the occasion besides taking the pledge.
​Students of GMSSS-44 are observing 'Poshan Pakhwara' that would include pledge on poshan (nutrition), rally and lectures to bring awareness.
​All the Health and Wellness Centres in the city are actively taking part in the awareness program.
​A Health Talk on 1000 Golden Days of Nutrition was conducted at Health and Wellness Centre (HWC), Sector 11, while HWC, Sector 27, hosted a lecture on balanced diet and prevention of anaemia.