By Shailesh Khanduri
Chandigarh: Protests rocked the campus of Chandigarh University in Punjab's Mohali Saturday night over allegations that objectionable videos of several women students were recorded by a hosteller, following which Chief Minister Bhagwant Mann ordered a probe.
The protests continued on the campus till late Sunday night with senior officials from the district administration, police and university trying to pacify the students.
After a preliminary investigation, police arrested a woman student, while a 23-year-old youth, stated to be her boyfriend, was held in Himachal Pradesh and handed over to the Punjab Police.
The Himachal Police also detained another 31-year-old man in connection with the case.
Punjab's Additional Director General of Police, Gurpreet Deo, who reached the Chandigarh University campus to take stock of the situation after the Saturday night protests, told reporters that the woman student appeared to have shared a video of herself with the youth and no objectionable video of any other student was found.
University authorities also rejected as "false and baseless" reports that claimed videos of several women students in the varsity hostel were made and leaked on social media and that distraught students had attempted suicide.
During the Sunday evening protest by a large number of students, including male, many accused the university authorities of  "suppressing facts" related to the alleged videos and '"suicide attempt'' by a student. Some students claimed that videos were leaked.
Most of the protesters were dressed in black clothes and chanted "we want justice" in the presence of police. They raised slogans against police as well.
Tension prevailed on the campus as protesting students confronted university and police officials, questioning "if nothing had happened on the campus", why the university on Sunday evening declared September 19 and 20 as "non-teaching days", thus a holiday for students.
Read more: https://www.newsdrum.in/national/chandigarh-university-protests-intensify-as-police-versity-admin-remain-in-denial-over-objectionable-videos-and-suicide-attempts-91315.html