The convenience of having your food delivered to your doorstep comes at a hefty price.

Vinayak Rajanahally, a LinkedIn user, shares two images of the same bill that the user must pay if he gets the food delivered by food delivery apps like Swiggy or Zomato and in the second case, picking up the food himself from the restaurant.  According to Vinayak Rajanahally, the difference between ordering food offline and online is 68% higher on Swiggy and 60% higher on Zomato (Walk-in price + Delivery Charges)! The offline bill was significantly less expensive.

According to the images posted by the LinkedIn user, the pricing of the food items if delivered online was being shown at ₹823 on Swiggy and ₹785 on Zomato but only ₹440 when the same was taken in offline mode.

Here is the full text shared by LinkedIn user Vinayak Rajanahally

"Yesterday, I wanted to order breakfast from Dakshin Café, a restaurant near my house. Picked my mobile to order on either Swiggy or Zomato."

"Checked total fares on both apps for my order. Swiggy showed Rs. 823. Zomato showed Rs. 785. I was about to order on Zomato thinking I will save Rs. 38."

"Just then a thought came, why not visit and pick up from the restaurant which is nearby, as I was free too. I visited the restaurant and was shocked to find that the total bill for my order was just Rs. 440….!!!"

"I checked on Dunzo and the delivery courier charges was Rs. 50 from there to my house.

If I had ordered online, I would have paid 68% higher on Swiggy and 60% higher on Zomato than (Walkin price + Delivery Charges) !!!"

I am sure even the restaurant owners don't make such fat margins. I wonder why are these food apps incurring massive losses despite making such huge margins.

Meanwhile, Swiggy had issued a clarification through Twitter, saying, "We understand your concern, and would like to inform you that we're trying to maintain transparency in our services & that extends to the pricing on the platform. However, the prices might be different online & offline as it is"