Defensive midfielder is one of the most vital player in the field as the defensive midfielder is the one responsible for helping the defence in defending as well as they also support the midfielders in creating the attack. 
The defensive midfielders are the Centre of the formation and these players runs a lot. They support the defence when the defense line spreads because of the opponent teams attacks. 
They takes the position between the two Centre Backs and help to increase the number of players in the defence duty. 
DEFENSIVE AWARENESS - 
Being aware of when the player have to support the defense and when they can go up to support the Midfield in attack is the most important attribute a defensive midfielder should have in his playing style. 
When facing an attack it is important to position appropriate and help the defense. 
BALL WINNING & TACKLING  
Winning the ball is required to get possession for the team. A defensive midfielder should have a quality of winning the ball easily. 
To win the ball a player must have good technical tackling knowledge as well as timing of tackling. 
All the Sliding Tackles need to be timed perfectly as these players position around the top of the box. Any mis-time tackle will lead to deadly Free kick or even Penalty kick in favour of the opponents.
STAMINA- 
These players are the one who runs a way lot. They play Box-to-Box which means that they have to cover to whole field. 
So as to meet this requirement a defensive midfielder should have good Endurance. 
Interval Running and jogging in slow pace for longer period of time will help individuals in increasing their Stamina. 
PHYSICAL CONTACT & PASSING 
In the Field there are lot of physical encounters while playing. So as to sustain and win these physical contacts an individual needs to have a good Physique and Core strength. 
The midfielders are the Picaso of Passing. They are the backbone of the possession and creative play of the whole team. Good Passing is required to be an ideal Defensive Midfielder.  
Let me in the notes if this helped you...
Thankyou⚽
