Manchester City's Premier League winners are "legends" who will be "remembered forever," according to Pep Guardiola, after a thrilling 3-2 triumph against Aston Villa on the last day of the season. After Villa grabbed a surprising two-goal lead in the second half at the Etihad Stadium, Guardiola's team seemed destined to hand the title to second-placed Liverpool. However, Guardiola introduced German midfielder Ilkay Gundogan, who ignited an astonishing comeback as City scored three goals in the final five minutes.

City won their fourth title in five seasons, finishing one point ahead of Liverpool to stop their rivals' quadruple.

Only Manchester United have won the Premier League so many times in a five-year span under Alex Ferguson.

Guardiola feels his club is deserving of being considered one of the best in English football history.

"These are legends in the making. It's because of these folks that you've won four times in five years in this country. "They'll be remembered for a long time," Guardiola declared.

"The final game is particularly memorable. It was quite an emotional game against a strong Aston Villa team. We're having fun under unusual conditions. "We have to deal with it," he replied.

"Gudo is our most capable runner." We got the impression we could score again after we had equalized. Winning in front of our home crowd is the greatest. "

Guardiola praises Liverpool's tenacious chase of City, claiming that their 3-1 win over Wolves on the last day would have put them in pole position to win the championship if City hadn't battled back in such spectacular fashion.

"In my life, I've never seen a team like Liverpool." I understand how difficult it is, but they assist us in becoming a better squad season after season. "I want to congratulate them," he remarked.

"The competition is fierce here. In both the Champions League and the Premier League, the last two months have been extremely difficult. But we're champions once more, "added the Spaniard.

"The coming season will be difficult. We shall continue to protect our throne.