All these features tend to indicate a very high antiquity for these mounds. The Great Stupa, at a distance of a mile and not later than the 2nd century BC, is architecturally much separated from these mounds. It may be added that only about a third of these mounds have been excavated, the rest remain to be explored. Mazumdar was not sure if all of them can be considered Buddhistic stupas and according to him they may yield valuable data for the study of the origin and development of the stupa, if sufficiently explored further.


Nandangarh Stupa : The mound

Nandangarh is a deserted fortress very near to the site of the pillar and is believed to have been linked to Chankigarh, another fortress nearby, where a lot of remains of the Buddhist period are to be found. Though noticed by Cunningham, it was not surveyed by him. Before excavation the mound had a height of 25 m and a circumference of about 460 m, standing at the East of a brick fortification about 1.6 km in perimeter and roughly oval of plan, no doubt enclosing a habitation area, perhaps the head-quarters of a clan that was responsible for the erection of the Lauriya Stupas. Surface finds indicate that it was inhabited in Sunga (if not earlier) and Kushans times.

On excavation, Nandangarh turned out to be stupendous Stupa with a polygonal base; with its missing dome which must have been proportionately tall, the Stupa must have been one of the highest in India. The walls of the four cardinal directions at the base (only the W ones and partly the S ones were excavated) are each 32 m long and the wall between each has a zigzag course with 14 re-entrant and 13 outer angles. The walls flanking the first and second terraces following the polygonal plan of the base; those pertaining to the upper terraces were circular. An extensive later restoration hid the four upper walls and provided new circular ones; the polygonal plan of the walls of the base and the first terrace were left unaltered. The top of each terrace served as a pradakshina-path (South facing pathway), though no staircase to reach the top was found in the excavated portion.

To be continued...