Street Food Tour:

The royal city of Jodhpur is undeniably one of the best food destinations in Rajasthan. The Jodhpuri cuisine is spicy and the sweets are made rich with lavish portions of dry fruits. The staple food of Jodhpur is the classic Dal Bati Churna and the must-try street foods are Pyaaz (onion) Kachauri, Mawa Kachauri, Mirchi Vada, Panchkula, and Makhaniya Lassi. Maakhan Vade, Mawa kachori, and Besan chikki dominate the sweets sections. For non-vegetarians, laal maans is the highlight. Get a food tour and head towards Pal Road, Clock Tower Market, C road Sardarpura, Mahalaxmi Misthan Bhandar, Nai Sarak, and Shanicharjika Than and treat yourself to the local dishes guilt-free.

Go Rappelling at Soorsagar:

If you are an adventure junkie and like to feel a rush in your adrenaline, then rappelling at Soorsagar are the most suitable offbeat things to do in Jodhpur waiting for you. With several rocks from small (30 feet) to big (110 feet), the area offers a perfect setting for indulging in rappelling and many other adventure activities.

Hunt for the Blue Houses:

A trip to Jodhpur can't be termed complete without getting a look of the city's beautiful blue streets, which not only give you the chance to get a taste of local culture and life but also discover the city’s colourful history.

The blue-painted section of the city is situated right behind the fort and is known as Navchokiya, a friendly and a quiet place. Opt for a guided walking tour to discover the magic of the city, which is among the best things to do in Jodhpur in the evening.

Hike through Rao Jodha Desert Rock Park :

The Rao Jodha Desert Rock Park was developed in 2006, with the aim of restoring the natural ecology of a large rocky wasteland area next to the Fort. Neglected for many years, it was overrun by an invasive thorny shrub. After the shrub was eradicated, over 80 native species of rock-loving plants from the Thar Desert were grown there. The Park extends across 70 hectares (around 200 acres) of rehabilitated land and has a walking trail.