Women who experienced their first menstrual period while they were younger are more prone to chronic pain in adulthood, as suggested by the reports in a study in PAIN, the official publication of the International Association for the Study of Pain (IASP). 

"We found strong associations between age at menarche and chronic pain outcomes in adult women," according to the new research by Charlotte Indre Lund, PhD fellow in Epidemiology at Oslo University Hospital, and colleagues. 

Within the study, the evidence suggests that with increased estrogen levels associated with early menarche may contribute to pain, and to sex differences in pain in general. 

Early menarche linked to higher prevalence and longer duration of chronic pain 

The data in the study was based on more than 12,000 women, average of age 55 who participated in the Tromso Study, which is an ongoing population study on the health of people in northern Norway. 

The researchers analyzed associations between women's self-reported age at menarche and the presence and characteristics of chronic pain. The women's reported average age at menarche was about 13 years. About 40% of women reported experiencing chronic pain. 

Women with younger age at menarche were more likely to have chronic pain. After adjustment for potential confounding factors, the relative risk of chronic pain decreased by 2% for each one-year delay in menarche. Absolute risk decreased by 1.1 to 1.4 percentage points per year. Across the full range of reported ages – from 9 to 18 years – the absolute risk of chronic pain differed by 12.6 percentage points. 

Older age at menarche was associated with lower rates of chronic pain in each of 10 body regions assessed, with the strongest associations for chest and abdominal pain. Younger age at menarche was associated with a longer duration of pain. 

Based on the new findings, the researchers conclude that "Age at menarche is an independent risk factor for chronic pain, site-specific chronic pain, and chronic widespread pain and [thereby] contribute to the explanation of sex differences in pain,". 

Read more - https://www.news-medical.net/news/20220304/Early-menarche-associated-with-chronic-pain-outcomes-in-women.aspx