Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi inaugurated India’s biggest Drone Festival – Bharat Drone Mahotsav 2022 today. He also interacted with Kisan drone pilots, witnessed open-air drone demonstrations and interacted with startups in the drone exhibition centre. Union Ministers Shri Narendra Singh Tomar, Shri Giriraj Singh, Shri Jyotiraditya Scindia, Shri Ashwini Vaishnaw, Shri Mansukh Mandaviya, Shri Bhupendra Yadav, many Ministers of State and leaders and entrepreneurs of drone industry were among those present on the occasion. The Prime Minister also gave away 150 drone pilot certificates.

Addressing the gathering, the Prime Minister conveyed his fascination and interest in the drone sector and said that he was deeply impressed by the drone exhibition and the spirit of the entrepreneurs and innovation in the sector. The Prime Minister also talked about his interaction with farmers and young engineers. He said that the energy and enthusiasm in the drone sector are visible and indicate India’s strength and desire to leapfrog into a leading position. “The sector shows great possibilities of a major sector for employment generation”, he said.

Recalling the new beginning exactly 8 years ago, the Prime Minister said “this was the time 8 years ago when we started implementing new mantras of good governance in India. Following the path of minimum government, and maximum governance, we have made ease of living, and ease of doing business a priority. We connected every citizen of the country with the facilities and welfare schemes by moving forward on the path of Sabka Saath Sabka Vikas.

The Prime Minister pointed out that during the earlier governments, technology was considered part of the problem and efforts were made to portray it as anti-poor. Due to this, there was an atmosphere of indifference regarding the use of technology in governance before 2014. The technology could not become part of the mood of the governance. The poor, the deprived, and the middle class suffered the most due to this. 

Read more
https://www.pmindia.gov.in/en/news_updates/pm-inaugurates-indias-biggest-drone-festival-bharat-drone-mahotsav-2022/?comment=disable