On 9 June 2022, a police search unit burst into a waste segregation centre overflowing with plastic waste, alongside which nearly 40 people lived in corrugated iron sheds with no sewers or electricity.


From the ramshackle slum of Shikaripalya on the southern edges of Karnataka’s capital city are visible the glass-and-steel towers of Electronics City, one of the largest info-tech hubs in a metropolis made famous by its felicity in serving clients around the world.


Shikaripalya is unknown even in Bengaluru, but it is one of many slums that process, segregate and otherwise manage some of the garbage generated by more than 11 million people. Without them, Bengaluru’s landfills would fill up quicker than they already do, with the process often requiring court intervention.


When the police descended on Shikaripalya—as they have on other slums like it with increasing frequency this year—they randomly accosted some of the labourers and demanded proof, said the workers, that the men, women and children living there were not illegal Bangladeshi immigrants.


The police have denied illegal detentions and allegations that their sweeps focussed on Bengali-speaking Muslims, despite evidence to the contrary. That there are Bangladeshi migrants in Bengaluru is not in dispute, but the search for them is being conducted in a manner that is traumatising and violative of the rights of Bengali-speaking Indian Muslims, said lawyers.


Police raids for Bangladeshis, said Bengali-speaking Muslim labourers we spoke to in five slums, were common. Every few weeks, policemen from the local Hebbagodi police station came with lathis in hand to “verify” the citizenship of the workers, almost all Bengali-speaking Muslims.


The latest of these came on 18 June, when policemen from the Hebbagodi police station entered a labour camp, reportedly beat labourers, alleging they were "Bangladeshis" and demanded that the recycling unit be closed. While the police denied the incident to Deccan Herald, medical reports seen by Article 14 and CCTV grabs suggest that two people suffered serious injuries in the raid.


Read More - https://article-14.com/post/bengali-muslims-harassed-detained-in-bengaluru-as-police-sweeps-for-illegal-bangladeshi-migrants-intensify-62b12ba1c3945