‌Ms Marvel has sparked a creative revolution and opened up reimagining and overturning stereotypical narratives. The Pakistani Muslim representation along with Indian and Pakistani representation among other casts have been the highlight.

In 2013, when Marvel declared that they were reimagining the comic book character of Ms Marvel originally in comics she was a blonde superpowered military hero. This led to controversies.

Obviously because of the archetypal representation in Comic book-male-dominated and white-centric – something Kamala was the antithesis of. In 2017, Marvel's vice president of sales asserted that feedback from retailers implied that readers were being estranged by the push for diversity. "What we heard was that people didn't want any more diversity," he said. "They didn't want Ms female characters out there. That's what we heard, whether we believe that or not."

Yet the accomplishment of the Ms Marvel comic books indicated otherwise. "Ms Marvel almost immediately became a hit comic and one of the biggest sellers online. When the audience of the comic book accepted her it gave Marvel the confidence to make a movie.

Kamala in the serious is your everyday, regular teenager – who happens to be Muslim, also a Pakistani American, and who happens to be a superhero. She has her hopes and passions; her adversities, insecurities, and impediments to overcome – things many of us can relate with.

The Pakistani heritage of Kamala Khan is also an important aspect. South Asian representation in the West has often been limited to India, and while there are many shared customs and traits, Pakistan also has its own unique culture. There has been criticism regarding the accent used to be Indian rather than Pakistani. Yet it isn't even a little hyperbolic to say the role was tailor-made for  Iman Vellani.

We know how superhero movies can be cliche but her background sets them apart. Even though I saw some stereotyping about the parents and the culture-we cannot assert that it isn't real.s. The show seems to walk a packed rope between pronounced representation and stereotyping and doesn't always get the balance right. Let's wait for more episodes to know more and experience more.