In a preseason friendly on July 18 in Austria, Borussia Dortmund will take on the Spanish team Valencia at 7 pm CEST.

Borussia Dortmund is in excellent shape. Dortmund finished the regular season with two 
victories and performed admirably in exhibition matches throughout the off-season. Borussia 
began with a victory against Luner, carried that momentum into a victory over Dynamo of Dresden, and then added a victory against Werl to their list. Many pundits still consider Borussia to be Bayern’s biggest rival in the race for the German championship.

Valencia have started their preseason training a little later than they should because the Spanish season begins on August 14, one week after the Bundesliga. After placing tenth in La Liga the previous season, the club fired head coach Jose Bordalas and replaced him with former Italy player Gennaro Gattuso.

Samu Castillejo, who was his first acquisition and with whom he had previously collaborated at AC Milan, In addition, Goncalo Guedes and Carlos Soler, who each scored 11 goals in the Spanish top division last season, must be avoided by BVB.

Dortmund vs Valencia: Probable Playing XI

Dortmund : Gregor Kobel, Manuel Akanji, Raphael Guerreiro, Mats Hummels, Niklas Sule, 
Marco Reus, Julian Brandt, Thorgan Hazard, Marius Wolf, Donyell Malen, Karim Adeyemi

Valencia : Jasper Cillessen, Gabriel Paulista, Jose Gaya, Toni Lato, Dimitri Foulquier, Goncalo Guedes, Mouctar Diakhaby, Carlos Soler, Uros Racic, Maxi Gomez, Manu Vallejo

Dortmund vs Valencia: Prediction

We anticipate goals on Monday since this seems to have all the potential to be a great fun game. Although Dortmund are more prepared for the next season than Valencia, who have brought a good team, we anticipate Dortmund to win this match.

Prediction: Dortmund 4-2 Valencia

Dortmund vs Valencia: Live Stream

The match’s live TV broadcast can be seen on Eleven Sports, Nova Sport, Arena Sport, Digi 
Sport, Eleven Sports, Bein Sport, and NENT, across all the European Nations.