As Director General of Prisons, he introduced a path-breaking program ‘Padho aur Padhao’ to eradicate illiteracy among inmates as well as campus placements for reformed prisoners, which resulted in nearly 1400 inmates being given jobs.

Some of his major achievements across the array of roles held earlier include having successfully managed the wide-spread rioting during the anti-Sikh agitation of 1984, Mandal agitation, the security arrangements for the Asian Games held in Delhi in 1982, the Non Aligned Summit of 1983, followed by CHOGM and, most notably, the hugely successful management of the Commonwealth Games, 2012. All of these involved managing huge challenges of complex logistics, a large human workforce, the use of data and intelligence in a most stressful zero-error environment. During his nine year tenure in the CBI, he was involved in investigating and successfully concluding a number of important trans-national operations and cases. These included investigating the Mumbai blasts of 1993 (he brought the Memon brothers to justice), the serial train blasts of 1994, the unearthing of the massive UTI scam, the first set of investigations into cricket match fixing, and the arrest of the key conspirator in the assassination of the Punjab Chief Minister Sardar Beant Singh. His work in combating Pakistan sponsored terrorism in India is noteworthy, particularly the arrest and deportation of Aftab Ansari, the key conspirator behind the terrorist strike on the American Centre, Kolkata in 2002. 

He has contributed to bringing about wider understanding of crime and its causative factors, as well as the development of policing effectiveness, by dealing with issues of morale, motivation and societal reform. He wrote a monograph ‘Matter of Chance’ on the state-run lotteries and their inherent malpractices, which was presented to the Supreme Court of India, and was one of the factors leading to the banning of lotteries in the country. As DGP, Prisons, Delhi he did commendable work in improving the living conditions for inmates, as well as promoting reintegration of reformed criminals with the society. He has attended training programs in Japan, USA, Austria and the Cambridge University.

Continued here:- https://www.pixstory.com/story/3-dial-d-for-don-a-note-about-the-author1648290388/89927