A new antiviral medication against respiratory syncytial virus, or RSV, appears to be safe and lowered viral levels and symptoms significantly more than a placebo, according to the results of a study published Wednesday in The New England Journal of Medicine.

The study is unusual in that it is based on a two-part human challenge trial, where researchers purposefully infect people with a pathogen to test a new therapy. Challenge studies speed up research because scientists don't have to wait for their study participants to get sick out in the real world. They can also enroll fewer people, knowing that participants will inevitably catch a germ. But they're also risky and only considered ethical when the need for a new treatment or therapy is thought to outweigh the potential risks to study participants.

📍A winter virus that inundates paediatricians-

RSV causes cold-like symptoms for millions of adults and children in the US each year. In severe cases, the infection can spread to the lower lungs, leading to pneumonia and inflammation of the smaller airways deep in the lungs. Young children can struggle to clear the copious mucus the infection produces, and about 58,000 children are hospitalized annually.

"All of us pediatricians start dreading RSV, from November to March. We know we're just going to get inundated with it," said Dr. Jill Foster, a pediatric infectious disease specialist at the University of Minnesota.

Covid-19 has upended RSV season for the past two years. It's normally a winter virus, but in 2020, RSV all but disappeared as people stayed home and wore masks. The virus roared back early in 2021, however, fueled by the lifting of restrictions in many parts of the country.

At the same time, doctors don't have great options to prevent or treat the disease. They can prescribe an injected and expensive monoclonal antibody that's given every three months to prevent RSV in children who may be especially vulnerable to its effects, such as those who are immunocompromised.

Read more/ https://amp.cnn.com/cnn/2022/02/17/health/rsv-potential-new-drug/index.html