A total of 29 people have been arrested in connection with the rioting and stone pelting that occurred in Kanpur on Friday. In addition, police have filed three FIRS against over 1,000 unidentified people for rioting and violence.

Kanpur Police have detained 29 persons in connection with the violence that erupted in the city's Parade Chowk area on June 3. Hayat Zafar Hashmi, a local Muslim leader, was named by the authorities as the principal perpetrator of the violence.

According to police, Hayat Zafar Hashmi, the national head of the Maulana Muhammad Jauhar Ali Fans Association, called for a market shutdown to protest BJP spokeswoman Nupur Sharma's remarks regarding Prophet Mohammed during a TV news debate.

The conspirators were apprehended with the stone pelters. Statement documents relating to the Popular Front of India, according to the kanpur police commissioner (pfi)


Over 1,000 unidentified people have been charged with rioting and violence in three separate FIRs. Ehitsham Kabadi, Zeeshan, Aaqib, Nizam, Azizur, Aamir Javed, Imran Kale, and Yusuf Mansuri are among the other defendants identified in the FIR.

1) The accused's six mobile phones are being searched. The accused's social media accounts are being searched. All of the defendants' names have been obtained. In two to three days, everyone will be arrested.

2) The market is open today, and the cops are on the lookout.

3) The inquiry revealed that these individuals attempted to degrade the city's atmosphere. They will be subjected under the Gangster Act, and their possessions will be seized. The measure will send a clear message that such behaviour will not be permitted under any circumstances.

4) Following the collection of evidence on a purely scientific basis, action is being done. If there is a police force shortage, it will be addressed.

5) We have 12 Provincial Armed Constabulary (PAC) companies and three Central Armed Police Forces companies (CAPF).

6) On the same day, the PFI called for a bandh in Manipur and West Bengal. The existence of a link is being studied.