Most of us might have heard the condition Schizophrenia, it is actually one of the most serious chronic mental health condition that affects a persona wellbeing as a whole like in how they think, behave and feel. People who are with the condition experiences the symptoms or act in a way that causes distress. This affects the individual who is experiencing it and also those who are around them like their families and friends. 

If we want to truly help our family members or our friends who have the condition, here are some ways we can help them out. By spreading awareness on schizophrenia to themselves is one good way to gain a self awareness about the condition and also explains more to your loved can also make them comfortable about it, becoming a good listener for them is a great thing because through this they start trusing you and you can guide them for getting professional help. 
Here are some more ways that you can extend your support and help to your loved ones who are battling with the condition. 

1. Learn more about schizophrenia


Schizophrenia is a complex condition that can have various symptoms and which requires special care. Learning more about the condition helps one to accept the treatment and go for the resolution faster than delaying the process with social stigmas associated with mental illness. 

2. Encourage someone to get treatment 

A person with schizophrenia may not feel the need of getting a professional help and they might be unaware about how to get help if they will to consult someone. So maybe as a friend or a family member you can help them understand the need of getting help and also find the right place to consult. 

3. Encourage someone to follow their treatment plan 

People can get proper treatment for the condition, with the support of the treatment people can lead a healthy and a rewarding lives. So people who are around them can motivate them and let them know about the benefits of getting a treatment. 

Sources - https://www.medicalnewstoday.com/articles/how-to-help-someone-with-schizophrenia#how-to-help