Former President Trump issued an executive order in September 2020 prohibiting federal contracts from being awarded to any diversity and inclusion training that contains "Divisive Concepts," "Race or Sex Stereotyping," or "Race or Sex Scapegoating."

Critical Race Theory is one of the topics that has been labeled as "divisive". The African American Policy Forum, led by legal scholar Kimberlé Crenshaw, responded by launching the #TruthBeTold campaign to highlight the order's dangers. According to reports, the directive has resulted in the cancellation of over 300 diversity and inclusion training sessions. A letter denouncing the executive order was signed by over 120 civil rights organizations and partners.

So what exactly is Critical Race Theory (CRT)?

Critical race theory is a more than 40-year-old academic idea. The primary premise is that race is a social construct, and that racism is not only the result of individual bias or prejudice, but also of legal systems and policies.
The key aspects of critical race theory, or CRT, originated from a framework for legal analysis created by legal scholars Derrick Bell, Kimberlé Crenshaw, and Richard Delgado, among others, in the late 1970s and early 1980s.

Today, those same discriminatory practises are perpetuated by rules that emerge to be race-blind, such as single-family zoning, which hinders the construction of inexpensive housing in advantaged, majority-white communities, stymieing racial desegregation attempts.

Some critics claim that the theory advocates discriminating racially against white people in order to achieve equity. However, it is a distant claim that again narrows down the concept of racism to an individual instead of the system. Racism is an institutionalized oppressive evil. While prejudices against white people is possible but it is not possible to oppress the most powerful and privileged race on the planet. Theories like reverse racism, or racism against white people, does nothing for the cause except for derailing the conversation.