Jabalpur, Madhya Pradesh: For the last 30 years, A*, a member of the Kuchbandiya community, made a living by brewing and selling alcohol derived from the flower of the mahua (Madhuca longifolia) tree. “Aadhi zindagi toh police, court kacheri ke chakkar mein nikli ja rahi hai. (I’m spending half my life in police stations and courtrooms),” she said.  


Since 2019, A* has been booked in five cases under section 34 of the Madhya Pradesh Excise Act, 1915, for unlawful manufacture, transportation, possession and sale of illegal alcohol. 


The 55-year-old said her family brews alcohol from mahua in very small quantities, making just enough money to survive. “Hum koi mafia nahi hai jaisa log samajhte hain (we are not a mafia like people perceive us),” she told Article 14, sitting on a dhurrie spread on the floor of her decrepit brick and mortar house in Jabalpur city’s Kuchbandiya colony, located in Ghamapur, in the heart of the city.

[[https://article-14.com/uploads/2022/05-May/05-Thu/Mahua%20flower.jpg]]

The  Criminal Justice and Police Accountability Project (CPA Project), a Bhopal-based research and advocacy group, said in a 2021 report titled ‘Drunk On Power’ that members of the Kuchbandiya community, a vimukta jaati or denotified tribe, are especially targeted for police action in some districts of the state, and women are targeted more frequently than men.


The denotified tribes (DNTs) were categorised thus because they were ‘notified’ as ‘born criminal’ communities during the British regime under a series of laws beginning with the Criminal Tribes Act, 1871. Living in mostly nomadic or semi-nomadic groups, members of the DNTs continue to face discrimination though the Indian government ‘denotified’ them in 1952.


Among the 1,094 arrests in cases related to excise between 2018 and 2020 at the Ghamapur police station in Jabalpur city, 57% involved Kuchbandiya individuals. Additionally, 441 of the 509 women arrested in Ghamapur in these cases in the same period belonged to the Kuchbandiya community.


Read more - https://article-14.com/post/how-mp-s-new-excise-law-criminalises-traditional-liquor-brewers-even-contains-a-death-sentence--62734cd9eae28