Tomato Flu is a viral disease. The name “Tomato Flu” comes from the main symptom of this disease, the tomato-
shaped blisters on several body parts. The blisters start as red-colored smallblisters and resemble tomatoes when they 
enlarge. 
Tomato Flu is a self-limiting infectious disease as the signs and symptoms resolve after a few days.
Primary symptoms observed in children with Tomato Flu are similar to those of other viral infections, which 
include fever, rashes and pain in joints. Rashes on skin can also lead to skin irritation. As with other viral 
infections, symptoms also include, fatigue, nausea, vomiting, diarrhea, fever, dehydration, swelling of joints, body
aches,and common influenza-like symptoms.
In children with these symptoms, molecular and serological tests are done for diagnosis of dengue,chikungunya, zika 
virus, varicella-zoster virus, and herpes; once these viral infections are ruled out, a diagnosis of tomato flu is 
considered.
Treatment is similar to other viral infections i.e. isolation for 5–7 days from onset of any symptom to prevent the
spread of infection to other children or adults, rest, plenty of fluids and hot water sponge for relief of irritation and
rashes. Supportive therapy of paracetamol for fever and body ache and other symptomatic treatments are required.
Tomato flu is a self-limiting illness and no specific drug exists to treat it.
Prevention:
The best solution for prevention is maintenance of proper hygiene and sanitization of thesurrounding necessities and 
environment as well as preventing the infected child from sharing toys, clothes, food, or other items with other non-
infected children.
Following are some preventive measures we should keep in mind:
➢ Avoid immediate contact with the infected person
➢ Educate your child about the signs and symptoms and its side effects
➢ Tell your child not to hug or touch children having fever or rash symptoms
➢ You should encourage your children about hygiene maintenance and stoppingthumb or finger sucking
habits
➢ Encourage the child to use a handkerchief in case of running nose or coughing toavoid the spread of the
disease
➢ Don’t scratch or rub the blister and wash every time you touch these blister