The Australian High Commission on Friday said Indian visitor visa lodgement is back at 2019 levels. The country has reopened its borders to fully vaccinated travellers - first allowing students, parents and migrants, and now all visitors - from February 21.
"Australia is open for business and tourists. So come on Down (Under)," said Chris Waters, minister counsellor for Southeast Asia, department of home affairs at the Australian High Commission, in his pitch.
"We are seeing a large number of Indian students coming to Australia," he said. "Some returning to study and others for the very first time."
“We hope now that the borders have reopened, we will see India go further and further up the rankings,” said Waters of the Australian High Commission. “The ICC T20 Cricket World Cup is coming back to Australia at the end of this year. We expect a lot of Indians to come and watch.”

Though India is yet to resume scheduled commercial international flight operations, eased restrictions for Indian travellers have brought hope of a better summer for travel companies and tour operators.
Pranav Sinha, head of South Asia at visa processing firm VFS Global, feels the travel outlook remains volatile due to geopolitical risks and potential new Covid-19 variants. But, he said, relaxation of travel curbs, along with demand in India — a key source market for international travel — signals an uptick in volumes this summer.

“The UK, several Schengen area members, Thailand and Japan have eased restrictions over the past few weeks,” he said. “Hence, we are hopeful of an increase in overseas travel this year, particularly from India.”
According to updates from VFS Global as on March 2, France, Italy, the UK, Ireland, Lebanon, Morocco, Norway, Austria, Belgium, Thailand, Turkey, the UAE (Dubai Visa Processing Centre) and South Africa are open for applications under all visa categories.

Source : https://m.economictimes.com/news/india/global-travel-shedding-covid-baggage-as-several-nations-ease-restrictions-for-indians/articleshow/90004791.cms