‌Youth Worker and activist of students federation of India (SFI) Dheeraj was stabbed to death following a conflict on elections in college in Idukki district of Kerala.

 Another student and SFI worker were also injured in the conflict.

‌The conflict allegedly broke out during the college elections and led to murder.

‌The SFI pinpoints KSU (Kerala Students Union) workers, youth union of Congress as the murderers.

‌A similar incident happened when 16 year old was killed in Alappuzha who was also an SFI worker.

‌Meanwhile, Kerala Pradesh Congress Committee President K Sudhakaran claimed that the number of workers from the (SFI) murdered will not come to one-third of the total Kerala Students Union (KSU) workers murdered, as if this was some kind of game to take count.

‌He also blamed SFI for spurring the political violence in the colleges over the years.

‌The campus violence did not begin today it roots back in 1974.

The first recorded murder on campus was in 1974. Ashraf, an SFI worker and a student of Brennan College, Thalassery, was killed by KSU workers.

‌Around 35 students would have lost their lives and most of the student unions have a share in it.

‌The glorification of death and marking them Rakthasakshi (martyr) is the worse case. Processions and strikes held on their names even after years of their death; their names are brought along in every party meeting to work out sentiments, even used to avenge.

‌The ideology of campus politics is to bring out democracy and make the youth educated on the protocols of democracy. 

But healthy politics is happening rarely, most of them strike almost half of the year making it difficult for students to attend classes. 

‌This is the reason why a section of people demands to ban politics in college.

‌Many of the leaders have their roots in college politics which act as a platform for mainstream politics but the recent political killings in Kerala side with the roots of it at the college level, later on, growing into the mainstream.

‌In the heat of the moment, clashes happen, there is always a family that mourns. So always prefer peace over blood.