Yesterday, two Indian Air Force pilots lost their lives in a MIG-21 jet crash during a training exercise in Rajasthan's Barmer.

"A twin seater Mig-21 trainer aircraft of the IAF was airborne for a training sortie from Utarlai air base in Rajasthan this evening. Around 9:10 pm, the aircraft met with an accident near Barmer. Both pilots sustained fatal injuries," the Air Force said in a statement.

"IAF deeply regrets the loss of lives and stands firmly with the bereaved families," the statement added.

The MIG-21 fighter jets are Soviet-era single-engine aircraft that have a long history of crashes and a poor safety record.

The Soviet fighters once formed the backbone of the IAF fleet but are now expected to be decommissioned within the next decade, and to be replaced with modern aircraft.

IAF got its first MIG-21 in 1963 and went on to obtain 874 variants of the supersonic fighter. Since then, 400 MIG-21s have crashed, claiming the lives of 200 pilots.

MIGs have crashed more than any other aircraft due to their use beyond their lifetime and a lack of induction of new advanced aircraft.

Due to the lack of a new advanced fleet, MIGs have been used for training in the 70s, 80s, and 90s. This period witnessed an increase in accidents among these fighters.

The accident rate of MIGs in the 1990s was 2.89 % per 10,000 flying hours. The rate decreased to 0.27 % in the 2000s after the induction of Hawk-132 into the IAF fleet.

Advance versions of MIGs have also been used by IAF with again, a history of accidents. The MIG-21 bis, an advanced version took its first flight in the mid-70s and it was further upgraded to the MIG-21 bison.

The Bison was used for cross-border strikes against terror targets in Balakot with Wing Commander Abhinandan creating history by drowning an F-16 (one of the deadliest jets in history), before being hit by a missile and ejecting.

It's high time that the MIG fleet is decommissioned and advanced fighter jets are induced into the airforce for the Safety of our nation and the brave soldiers.

Source :- Rahul Singh viaTwitter