Healthy eating have its own benefits and now studies also proves that healthy eating could encourage to promote mental health and well being. A study that's published in British Journal of Nutrition found that frequent consumption of fruit is associated with lower depression scores. 

Healthy Food Fuels Mental Wellness 

Clinical social worker and Neuroscientist, Renetta Weaver, LCSW-C, says that, "This study found a link between higher psychological health and well-being when we eat fruit, and lower psychological health and well-being when we eat savory, low-nutrient snacks." 

"The study highlighted that it’s not the portion size but rather the regular consumption of fruit that can really have a positive impact on our mental health. Consuming savory snacks often can lead to forgetfulness, and feelings of anxiety and depression," she says. 

Weaver states that sometimes people forget about how they also rely on some fuel like the cars, when it comes to how our body functions. 

"Our body is the vehicle that helps us get up and go, therefore it’s important to fill our vehicle with the best fuel, as nutrition impacts our mental health because what we eat determines how we feel," she says. 

Weaver highlights, "When we eat nutrient-rich foods that provide the minerals and vitamins that our body relies on to function, we have more energy to meet the demands of our day. However, when we eat processed foods, we satisfy our hunger but don’t truly get the vitamins and nutrients to succeed. This leaves us feeling tired, sluggish, anxious, and depressed." 

Savory snacks can be tasty, inexpensive and is much more readily available, Weaver notes that with intentional planning, an increase in fruit intake is possible. 

"Eating fruit may not be as convenient as eating a savory snack because fruit is more expensive and has a short shelf life," she says.  

Weaver recommends, "Be mindful that you might have to schedule more trips to the store, more time to meal plan. and you will have to come up with a strong 'why' to help you to stay motivated."  

Sources - Very Well Mind