Today, Dr. Chintan Vaishnav, the mission director of the Atal Innovation Mission (AIM), NITI Aayog in New Delhi, visited the Boys Higher Secondary School in Budgam and presided over an interactive meeting with the principals and headmasters of the city's schools. 

The Program Director of Atal Tinkering Labs, Deepali Upadhyay, the Innovation Lead (AIM), Prateek Deshmukh, the Innovation Lead (AIM), Vishnu Priya Bijapur, the Innovation Lead (AIM), and the Media and Communications Lead (Atal Innovation Mission Niti Aayog) were all there.

Naseer Ahmad Wani, the Additional Secretary for School Education Ata-ul Munim Tak, the Personal Officer for the Directorate of School Education in Kashmir, the Chief Education Officer for Budgam, the Deputy CEO for the CEO, the ZEOs, and other relevant individuals were also present. 

The AIM Team examined the Atal Tinkering Lab during its visit to BHSS Budgam, where inventive students showcased their inventive models and provided information on the difficulties they encountered while developing these innovations. 

The MD praised the pupils for their creative thinking and diligence. He claimed to be quite impressed with J&K and to have discovered some of the nation's smartest kids there. Students performed skits and presented cultural programmes to raise awareness of the need to encourage an inventive and creative mindset among

Later, the MD and the AIM Team went to TRC Doodpathri where they had a brief conversation about setting up and effectively running Tinkering Labs with the principals and school heads of Budgam. 

Speaking at the event, the MD said that the Atal team had developed over 10,000 Tinkering Labs across India, hundreds of which had also been set up in schools in J&K. 

In the next years, he claimed, the AIM will create more than 500 labs in schools throughout J&K in an effort to encourage pupils there to think creatively and innovatively. 

The goal, according to MD, is to bring this creative and inventive movement to all schools and give these unique thinkers a stage on which to act and display their talent. 

He stated that young people are encouraged.