Penelope Cruz is Pedro Almodóvar’s muse. Hard to see this Spanish director’s movies without her. In Parallel Mothers, another talent, Milena Smit joins her. Both moms come in every frame of this melodrama. That’s a typical Pedro filmmaking featuring women central to the plot.

I missed Parallel Mothers at BIFFES and IFFK and was eager to watch it. But it didn’t excite me to the level I got to know from others. The film is very predictable. Totally clumsy direction. Scenes go in a precise order with no bends. At one point when Janis (Cruz’s character) reveals a crucial secret, we may feel –was it?! This lengthy movie fails to leave a mark, a bog-standard one.

This confused me more - how a baby swapping theme can be connected to the Spanish Civil War. If the script was after a deliberate chance for the main leads to meet, a coffee shop was more ideal. If it is to glorify Arturo (Israel Elejalde), a forensic anthropologist, that fella had no meaty sequences in the film. Janis has been given enough importance as a fashion photographer.

Script is too straight to accommodate any risks or charged conversations. Only one I found interesting is Ana’s mother played by Aitana Sánchez-Gijón. She says – her passion for acting only led her in life. She got married to move away from her parents. She took divorce to be free to pursue it. She couldn’t pay attention to her daughter who was under shared custody. When Ana was sent back to her as a pregnant teenager also, their association didn’t work well. But Pedro features her respectable when Ana tells Janis the only thing she learned from her mother is how to live for herself.

Janis is proud of her single-mother status and similar family background, She enjoys every moment of baby caring. Cruz made it very convincing. She is gentle with Arturo and trusts science for clearing biological doubts. But her weak role leaves nothing for us to cherish. Ana’s face is very emotive and her role demands less, Cruz’s no way beyond her in this film.