Canva-Design Anything ✨
Graphic design is the most powerful art that has breathed fresh life into digital marketing. This modern form of art has added a contemporary flair to the advertisement profile of every company. It also acts as one of the key components to build brand awareness and influence the customer’s decision-making process.
Canva
Canva is a powerful design tool that can be used in education to create projects that not only look great but also help teach students the basics of digital design.This is a free tool that allows students and teachers to work with photo editing, design layout, and more, all within an easy-to-use platform.
While this can be used by students to submit projects, it can also teach them how to work more creatively when laying out work. Teachers can also use the platform to create guidance, posters, and more for the classroom and beyond.
How does Canva work?
Canva is easy to sign up for, using either an email, Google account, or Facebook login. Once an account is created, for free, you can pick if you're using it as a teacher, student, or anything else.
Teaching how to use Canva can be the focus of a lesson that aims to broaden the digital skills available to students. But since this is so easy to use, it will likely take very little time. Letting the students play with the options is how the deeper learning and creativity can flourish.
Benefits of using Canva
Canva offers a variety of features due to which has gained popularity among millions of people. The benefits of using Canva are −
Free Design Platform
Canva is free to use and open for everyone. You can use it for creating compelling designs for social media, marketing campaigns, or projects.
Ease of use with multiple templates, and fonts
Canva has a library of different backgrounds, templates, images, fonts, stickers to ensure that you get the best results. You don't have to be a techie to use these features. In just a few clicks, you can create an engaging design with these tools. The only thing you need is creativity.