Source: The Indian Express 
There are many reasons why one should add plenty of protein-rich foods to their diet. It is understood that proteins help to structure and support the cells, build immunity and are useful for hormone synthesis. Once consumed, proteins break down into amino acids, which are further used for metabolic processes in the body. 
According to Neha Ranglani, an integrative nutritionist and health coach, apart from promoting good health, protein also helps to build, repair and maintain the muscles. “Protein comes from a variety of sources — nuts like almonds, meat, milk, fish, soy, eggs, as well as beans and legumes,” she says.
Unfortunately, a lot of people are confused about what kinds of foods to add to their diet, so as to meet their daily protein requirement. Ranglani says plant-based proteins are easy to digest and have reduced effects on cholesterol, blood pressure and diabetes as compared to animal proteins.
“Almonds are one of the best options. They are light, nutritious, and packed with fibres, minerals, vitamin E and magnesium, along with plenty of protein,” the expert states. She lists four such healthy plant-based options of proteins; read on.
1. Almonds: They are a rich source of protein, and can help reduce the risk of heart disease. Almonds can be consumed raw, soaked, and can also be added to salad bowls. They are an easy and safe option for protein on-the-go. A study published in the Journal of the American Heart Association found that a daily snack of 42 grams of almonds — consumed as part of an overall healthy diet — improved several heart disease risk factors, whereas 30 grams/23 almonds may improve type-2 disease factors.
2. Tofu: Like other soy-based foods, tofu contains plant estrogens that may help reduce coronary heart disease factors. It contains iron, calcium, and 12–20 grams of protein per 3.5-ounce (100-gram) serving. While tofu doesn’t have much taste on its own, it easily absorbs the flavour of the ingredients it is prepared with.
Continue reading in the support section