The weather is cooling down but Melbourne’s event calendar is hotter than ever. Grab the diary – you’ll want to lock in every one of these major events.

.Lightscape

Luminous trees, winding paths aglow with twinkling lights and towering large-scale installations. This garden takeover will be a night out of epic proportions. Book ahead and see this iconic outdoor space reimagined for winter.

.Light: Works from Tate’s Collection

An illuminating collection of art will arrive at ACMI this winter, curated by the Tate and drawn from their prestigious collection. Historical paintings by artistic heavyweights are set to be transformed by ground-breaking light works. Think Claude Monet, Yayoi Kusama, Wassily Kandinsky and more.

.The Picasso Century

See the masterpieces that tipped the art world on its head at the NGV's world premiere of The Picasso Century. Follow Pablo Picasso's career through all its eras, including his iconic cubism period. The exhibition features over 70 works by the avant-garde artist. Alongside more than 100 works by his contemporaries including Salvador Dalí and Henri Matisse.

.Cinderella

Be swept up in the romance and glamour of this beloved fairy tale at the Regent Theatre. The Tony Award-winning musical puts a contemporary twist on the classic tale for 2022. Revisit the songs from Rodgers & Hammerstein’s Cinderella musical. And see all the iconic moments on stage, from the pumpkin transformation to the glass slippers and masquerade ball.

.Melbourne Museum's 67-million-year-old triceratops

The world's most complete triceratops fossil has arrived in Melbourne. Clocking in at 85 per cent complete and a whopping 1,000 kilos, 'Horridus' is the most intact real dinosaur fossil in any Australasian Museum. Marvel at this historic wonder in an immersive voyage into a lost world.

.The Lume Melbourne

Get ready to van Gogh-off Melbourne: this 3,000 square metre projection art gallery is finally open! Explore endless rooms swirling with floor-to-ceiling digital displays based on iconic artworks by Vincent van Gogh. Then snap the ultimate selfie in a mirrored sunflower wonderland. They're also running early morning yoga sessions, with a new multi-sensory theme for July.