Introduction

The nuclear factor erythroid 2 [NF-E2]-related factor 2 (Nrf2) and Kelch-[ECH]-associated protein 1 (Keap1) signaling pathway is known as the guardian of lifespan as they play a vital role in cellular defense and survival mechanisms which help in the prevention of a wide range of diseases including cancer.


Phytochemical-mediated bidirectional modulation of Nrf2

 Collaterally the endogenous and exogenous Nrf2-regulatory factors that influence the incidence and progression of cancer have been better deciphered and managed. To prevent oxidative stress/inflammation-mediated carcinogenesis, activation of Nrf2 remains a useful approach whereas for cancer therapeutics and resistance reversal inhibition of Nrf2 inhibition is desirable.

Biochemical properties, bioavailability, and biotransformation of tea polyphenols

Tea, prepared from the dried leaves and buds of the plant Camellia sinensis is one of the most ancient medicinal beverages. The major chemical constituents of green tea leaves are polyphenolic catechism.


Anticancer potential of tea phytochemicals by modulation of 
Nrf2

Tea polyphenols exhibit a wide variety of biological properties, including antioxidant and chemopreventive effects. The anticancer nature of tea lies in its canonical antioxidative behavior owing to the efficient ROS-scavenging property of its active constituents. This enables the tea flavonoids to directly bind with the carcinogens and neutralize them.

Challenges and prospects

Tea, a widely used beverage, comprises numerous pharmacologically active polyphenols which have diverse health benefits. It has been known that Nrf2 plays a crucial role in the oxidative stress signaling pathway. Tea polyphenols have always been novel molecules for treating oxidative stress-related disorders, especially cancer. The structure-function relationship of different bioactive tea components is not distinctly established and very often they show overlapping action.

Conclusion

A chronic multifactorial disease, such as cancer, requires continuous attention starting from prevention to finally therapy . In this context, a detailed study on the composition and efficacy of different tea types in preventing or curing cancer should be of prime relevance. Reactive oxidative byproducts play a dual role in carcinogenesis and anti-carcinogenesis. The broad chemopreventive potential of tea phytochemicals lies in their two inherent properties, namely reduction of the

Sources:

https://www.sciencedirect.com/search?qs=diabetes%20and%20metabolic%20syndrome&sortBy=date