Cassidy Hutchinson is sworn in to testify before the House January 6th committee, on June 28, 2022. Andrew Harnik-Pool/Getty Images
Cassidy Hutchinson and Greek tragedy show that courage is rare and cowardice more common
Published: July 8, 2022 8.18am EDT
Author
Rachel Hadas
Professor of English, Rutgers University - Newark

Disclosure statement
Rachel Hadas does not work for, consult, own shares in or receive funding from any company or organization that would benefit from this article, and has disclosed no relevant affiliations beyond their academic appointment.

Partners
Rutgers University - Newark 

Rutgers University - Newark provides funding as a founding partner of The Conversation US.

View all partners

 Email
 Twitter9
 Facebook
 LinkedIn
 Print
Ever since former White House aide Cassidy Hutchinson’s remarkable testimony in the recent January 6 committee hearing, I’ve been thinking – as I’m sure many people have – about courage. Seeking analogies in literature, I think of two women from Greek mythology: Antigone and Iphigenia.

Courage often engenders more of itself: Being brave may make you even braver. In the cases of these two heroines, courage doesn’t save any lives.

But these women’s behavior does make us ask what people are capable of, and whether we too might be able to summon such courage. The behavior of the powerful men around Antigone and Iphigenia shows how only a rare few are able to summon courage, and dramatizes how, instead, the drive to maintain power takes the form of cowardice and willful blindness.

Courage vs. silence
In Sophocles’ tragedy Antigone, the heroine, daughter of the late King Oedipus, ritually buries her brother Polynices by sprinkling dust on his exposed corpse.

Her act defies King Creon’s recent edict that Polynices be left to rot, unburied. Polynices and his brother Eteocles fought for control of Thebes, and the brothers killed each other. To Creon, Polynices was a traitor who attacked his native Thebes, while Eteocles, who died defending the city, merits a hero’s funeral.

Read more : https://theconversation.com/cassidy-hutchinson-and-greek-tragedy-show-that-courage-is-rare-and-cowardice-more-common-186423