China says a "political force" in Australia that views it as a rival and its development as a threat has been responsible for the deterioration of the relationship between the two countries.

comments about China–Australia relations to members of the Chinese media while visiting Papua New Guinea.

Mr Wang said a reset in the relationship required "concrete actions" and that there was "no autopilot".

"The crux of the difficulties in China–Australia relations in the past few years is that some political force in Australia insists on viewing China as a rival rather than a partner and framing China's development as a threat rather than an opportunity," a statement from China's Ministry of Foreign Affairs said.

"This has led to a significant retrogression of the many-year positive and pragmatic China policy by Australia.

"The solution is looking at China and China–Australia relations in a sensible and positive way, uphold mutual respect, seek common ground while shelving differences, and create the necessary conditions for bringing bilateral relations back on the normal track."

The comments came as Mr Wang finished an eight-country tour of the Pacific region that has raised concerns in Washington and Canberra.

In the wake of his trip, Australia's new Foreign Minister, Penny Wong, also flew to the region, visiting Fiji, Samoa and Tonga.

China has signed more than 50 agreements while touring Pacific countries but failed to convince 10 nations to sign on to a sweeping regional trade and security deal.

It now appears discussions around that agreement could be delayed until next year and could lead to the creation of a new sub-regional discussion forum between China and the 10 Pacific nations that have diplomatic relationships.

Agreements signed in Timor-Leste

Mr Wang finished his unprecedented tour in Timor-Leste on Saturday.

On the final leg of his trip, he held a series of meetings with Timorese President Jose Ramos-Horta, the Prime Minister, Foreign Minister and former president Xanana Gusmao.

The two countries also signed several agreements on issues such as civil aviation, agriculture, increased economic and technical cooperation, and a media licensing agreement.