World Football Summit speaks exclusively with Richard Felton-Thomas, COO & Head of Sport Science at Artificial Intelligence based platform AiSCOUT, about its AI based platform that is revolutionising football scouting all over the world.


World Football Summit: What is AiSCOUT’s unique value for the football and sports industry?

Richard Felton-Thomas: AiSCOUT is solving a significant unmet needs and is the only app-based platform enabling the participation of prospective recruits in virtual trials, to receive near real-time analysis using benchmarked data collected from R&D and club automated feedback, all via a mobile phone.

WFS: In what ways are your products helpful for amateur players?

Felton-Thomas: The player app is available worldwide. Players complete profiles, add images and videos, anything football clubs would like to see in one place. This is similar to many other apps on the market. However, the major difference and USP of AiSCOUT, is the opportunities it provides to the player – to generate real, useable, benchmarked data, using just a mobile phone in their own environment. Everything a player adds to their account is analysed.

WFS: What are the outstanding features of your tools for professional clubs?

Felton-Thomas: A team of experts from the worlds of data, talent ID, AI, bio mechanics, motion capture and football, were assembled to develop what we have called a fully automated Talent Identification Platform.

WFS: What are the greatest still unexploited benefits of artificial intelligence for sport in the next 10-20 years?

Felton-Thomas: Artificial intelligence becomes increasingly more beneficial and increasingly more insightful as we plug information in to the scale that the Human Brain couldn’t compute or analyse itself. We will start to find correlations and relationships in data points, that help us discover or develop talent, in ways we knew existed.

WFS: In what way has the WFS Award received last year benefitted your company?

Felton-Thomas: One, the validation that our product and ideas resonate with the genuine issues that football has. Two, it increased our reputation with investors, media and potential clients. 

Read the full interview here: https://worldfootballsummit.com/understanding-aiscout-and-how-its-revolutionising-football-scouting/