Noida: Residents of Sector 79, who live adjacent to a construction and demolition waste plant in Sector 80, have been complaining about periodical dumping and burning of garbage in the area, in gross violation of the National Green Tribunal (NGT) norms.
On Saturday, once again, some residents tweeted a video of garbage being burnt in the area and said that it also affects the migratory birds in the area.
According to Ridhima Singh (18), a resident of Gaur Sportswood Sector 79, the land opposite the society complex in Sector 112 has a big barren land.On one side it is surrounded by small rural settlements as well as high-rise societies, while on the other, there are industrial units under Noida Special Economic Zone (NSEZ) industrial units.All three together, dispose all kinds of waste on this land which is periodically burnt.
“We are inhaling slow poison daily because of the deadly chemical being burnt here.There are dangerous carcinogens like dioxins, furans and black carbon – which is a short-lived, but menacing climate pollutant,” said Singh.The residents of the area have repeatedly complained to Noida Authority, but say that nothing has been done about the issue.
Sanwarjeet Singh, another resident in a nearby apartment complex,says that they have noticed frequent burning of industrial waste in the area over the last six months.
“When we visited the site,we saw rubber and plastic waste being dumped and then burnt at this plot, adjacent to our society.This burning releases hazardous and toxic gas in the air which not only affects the flora and fauna of the area including the migratory birds that often visit Sector 79, but it is also hazardous for the residents of the sector,”he added.
When TOI contacted the Noida Authority, the officials there assured action on the matter.
“We will take necessary action on those dumping waste and burning it there.Also, we will recommend the matter to the pollution department,” said SC Mishra, deputy general manager, Noida Authority.
Praveen Kumar,regional officer,Uttar Pradesh Pollution Control Board (UPPCB) also assured action over the matter.
“We will conduct an investigation and take necessary action against the culprits on priority,” he said. 

Source- https://m.timesofindia.com/city/noida/inhaling-slow-poison-garbage-burning-poses-health-risk-residents/amp_articleshow/89258127.cms