Mahant Deependra Giri has announced the program for 'Chhari-Mubarak Swami Amarnath Ji Yatra-2022' for information of 'sadhus' and public in general.

The Mahant, who is the custodian of the holy mace of Lord Shiva or as it is called the "Charri-Mubarak of Shri Amarnath" said the rituals will begin July 13.

In a statement issued he said, as per the age-old tradition rituals namely ‘Bhoomi-Pujan’, ‘Navgrah Pujan’ and ‘Dhawajarohan’ connected with traditional commencement of annual pilgrimage of Chhari-Mubarak Swami Amarnath Ji shall be performed at Pahalgam on auspicious occasion of ‘Ashad-Purnima’ (Vyas-Purnima) that falls next Wednesday.

Chhari-Mubarak shall be taken to historic Shankracharya Temple on July 28 and Sharika Bhawani Temple on July 29 before rituals are performed for Chhari-Sthapana at Shri Amareshwar Temple Dashnami Akhara Srinagar on July 31.

After performing Chhari-Pujan at Dashnami Akhara Srinagar on auspicious occasion of ‘Nag-Panchami’ on August 2, Giri shall carry the Holy Mace to the Amarnath shrine to perform pujan and pay his obeisance early morning on “Shravan-Purnima” that fall on August 12.

He will make nighthalts at Pahalgam on August 7 and 8, Chandanwari on August 9, Sheshnag on 10 and Panchtarani on August 11, respectively.

Giri had met Hon’ble Lieutenant Governor Manoj Sinha at Raj Bhawan, Srinagar on July 1 and presented him the detailed program for Chhari-Mubarak Swami Amarnath Ji Yatra.

The Mahant has urged the Government to make all the necessary arrangements and take appropriate measures for the safety and security of the sadhus & pilgrims accompanying the Holy Mace.

Giri advised sadhus and members of civil society to get themselves registered who intend to join Chhari-Mubarak and stated that only registered pilgrims with valid Yatra permit shall be allowed to accompany Chhari-Mubarak yatra.

Mahadev Gir Dashnami Akhara Trust, Srinagar has made all the arrangements as in the past for seers coming from across the country for annual pilgrimage of Amarnath. The Trust takes care of their food and stay at Akhara Building at the Budshah Chowk here.