Analysis of the life skills field suggests that there is a core set of skills that are at the heart of skills-based initiatives to promote the health and well-being of children and adolescents.
These are listed below:
Decision-Making helps us to deal constructively with decisions about our lives. This can have consequences for health. It can teach people how to actively make decisions about their actions with healthy
assessment of different options, and what effects these different decisions are likely to have.

Problem Solving enables us to deal constructively with problems in our lives. Significant problems that are left unresolved can cause mental stress and give rise to accompanying physical strain.

Creative Thinking contributes to decision-making and problem solving by enabling us to explore the available alternatives and various consequences of our actions or non-action. It helps us to look beyond our direct experience. Even if no problem is identified or no decision is to be made, creative thinking can help us respond adaptively and with flexibility to the situations of our daily lives.
   
   Critical Thinking is an ability to analyze information and experiences objectively. Critical thinking can contribute to health by helping us to recognize and assess the factors that influence attitudes and behaviour, such as values, peer pressure, and the media.

Effective Communication means that we can express ourselves, both verbally and non-verbally, in a way that is appropriate to our cultures and situations. This means being able to express opinions and
desires, but also needs and fears. And it may mean being able to ask for advice and help in a
time of need.

Interpersonal Relationship skills help us to relate in positive ways with the people we interact
with. This may mean making and keeping friendly relationships, which can be of great
importance to our mental and social well-being. It may mean keeping good relations with family members, which are an important source of social support. It may also mean being able to end relationships constructively.