The UEFA Champions League 2022-23 season will begin on Tuesday with multiple games taking
place across Europe. The Group G fixtures will begin with a match between Borussia Dortmund
and Copenhagen at the Westfalenstadion.
Manchester City, Sevilla, Dortmund, and Copenhagen are the 4 teams that will be fighting forthe UCL title this season from Group G. It will be the first major European cup meeting between
both the teams. The last time these two teams faced each other in a European competition was
in 2001-02 UEFA Cup.
Dortmund have had a perfect record against Danish clubs so far and haven't lost a single game
yet. Copenhagen, on the other hand, have not lost their opening Champions League game. Thiswill be Dortmund’s 20th campaign in the UCL, with their last 7 campaigns coming in a row.
Dortmund vs Copenhagen Match Details
Match: Dortmund vs Copenhagen
Date and Time: 06th September, 05:45 pm UK, 06:45 pm Local, 10:15 pm IST
Venue: Westfalenstadion
Dortmund vs Copenhagen Probable Playing XI
Dortmund: Gregor Kobel, Thomas Meunier, Nico Schlotterbeck, Mats Hummels, Marius Wolf,
Jude Bellingham, Salih Ozcan, Julian Brandt, Marco Reus, Thorgan Hazard, Anthony Modeste
Copenhagen: Mathew Ryan; Kevin Diks, Denis Vavro, Davit Khocholava, Victor Kristiansen, 
Lukas Lerager, Zeca, Rasmus Falk Jensen, Viktor Claesson, Mohammed Daramy, Andreas Cornelius
Dortmund vs Copenhagen Probable Winners 
Borussia Dortmund are on a roll at the moment, riding on the back of back-to-back wins and 5wins in the last 6 games in all competitions.
Copenhagen too, have opened their season on a positive note and have won their last couple of
competitive outings. However, Dortmund look a much more dominant side on paper and withthe home advantage being in their favor, they could win this tie.
Prediction: Dortmund 2-1 Copenhagen
Dortmund vs Copenhagen Live Stream
Dortmund vs Copenhagen will be live-streamed on SonyLIV. Indian fans can also stream thematch live on Jio TV. In Germany, The match will be televised on DAZN. Prime Videosubscribers will be able to watch the match online via the website or app. In Denmark, Viaplaywill live stream.