By Nisha Qureshi 

Google has again delayed its plan to phase out third-party cookies on Chrome until 2024. Initially, the tech giant had announced it will phase them by 2022 and then pushed it to 2023. The delay will give the industry much-needed time to adapt to a cookie-less world, the tech company has said. 

Third-party cookies are currently used by advertisers and businesses to track a visitor’s web activity, which helps any website showcase relevant ads according to the person’s online behaviour.

However, due to the ever-increasing demand for privacy in the digital world, Google plans to replace third-party cookies with the Privacy Sandbox initiative. According to Google,  the Privacy Sandbox initiative aims to help build new digital advertising tools to protect people’s privacy and prevent covert tracking, while supporting a thriving ad-funded web. 

In a statement, Anthony Chavez, Vice-President, Privacy Sandbox, Google, had said about the latest developments, “The most consistent feedback we’ve received is the need for more time to evaluate and test the new Privacy Sandbox technologies before deprecating third-party cookies in Chrome. This feedback aligns with our commitment to the CMA to ensure that the Privacy Sandbox provides effective, privacy-preserving technologies and the industry has sufficient time to adopt these new solutions.”  

“This deliberate approach to transitioning from third-party cookies ensures that the web can continue to thrive, without relying on cross-site tracking identifiers or covert techniques like fingerprinting. For these reasons, we are expanding the testing windows for the Privacy Sandbox APIs before we disable third-party cookies in Chrome,” added Chavez. 

What are the alternatives?

However, digital experts suggest this delay is an opportune time for advertisers to prepare themselves even more robustly for a cookie-less world. Some also suggest that Google has been struggling to phase cookies out. 

Gowthaman Ragothaman, Co-Founder, Web3 Marketing Association, in a LinkedIn post said that publishers need to start testing out their alternatives soon. 

Read more
https://bestmediainfo.com/2022/07/cookieless-future-what-other-alternatives-do-advertisers-have