Read a scary article shared by a doctor. 
A report on SKy News with headline Microplastics found in human blood for first time after scientists make 'concerning finding' . 
The headline was alarming and the contents of the article caused more concern, as inspite efforts we are unable to take plastic out of our lives. The study published in journal Environment International said the most common detected plastic was PET , the one used to make bottles . 

Read the report below

Tiny particles of plastic have been found in human blood for the first time, raising fears about their long-term health effects.

Dutch scientists found 17 of 22 volunteers, or 77%, had "quantifiable" microplastics in their blood.

Levels were low, at an average of 1.6 micrograms (1.6 millionths of a gram) in every millilitre of blood.

But the mere presence of microplastics - fragments of everyday items - in the bloodstream is highly significant.

The most common detected plastic was PET, which is used to make drinks bottles.

It was found in 50% of the volunteers, according to results published in the journal Environment International.

Polystyrene, which is widely used in food packaging, was found in 36% and polyethylene, which is used in packaging films and bags, was found in 23%.

The researchers, from Vrije Universiteit Amsterdam and the Amsterdam University Medical Centre, say the microplastics are likely to have been inhaled or ingested before being absorbed into the bloodstream.

They describe the plastic fragments as "ubiquitous pollutants in the living environment and food chain". But no previous study has been able to detect them in the blood.

"The plastic particle concentrations reported here are the sum of all potential exposure routes: sources in the living environment entering air, water and food, but also personal care products that might be ingested, dental polymers, fragments of polymeric implants, polymeric drug delivery nanoparticles and tattoo ink residues," they conclude.

https://www.google.co.in/amp/s/news.sky.com/story/amp/microplastics-found-in-human-blood-for-first-time-after-scientists-make-concerning-finding-12574356