Inflation hit a fresh 40-year high in February as the Consumer Price Index surged to 7.9%, the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics reported on March 10, 2022. The continuing surge in inflation comes amid growing fears that the recovering U.S. economy might suffer significantly from the knock-on effects of sanctions against Russia over its invasion of Ukraine. The resulting spike in oil prices in March will not only keep inflation climbing but could induce a recession as energy prices drive up costs for consumers and companies.

We asked Veronika Dolar, an economist at SUNY Old Westbury and visiting professor at Stony Brook University, to explain stagflation, what causes it and why presidents and policymakers hate the phenomenon.

What is stagflation?

Economists typically focus on the three big macroeconomic variables: gross domestic product, unemployment and inflation.

Each measure tells its own important story about how the economy is doing. GDP – or the total output of all good and services produced – shows us what the broader economy is doing, unemployment tells us about the job situation, and inflation measures the movement of prices.

But their stories also overlap. And unfortunately, they usually don’t all tell us good news at the same time.

Under normal circumstances, there are trade-offs. You usually can’t have a strong pace of GDP growth and low unemployment without suffering the pains of higher inflation. And if you’re able to keep inflation low, that usually comes at the expense of subdued GDP and possibly higher unemployment.

So, normally there is some good news and some bad news. But with stagflation, there is no good news.

Stagflation happens when the economy is experiencing both economic stagnation – stalling or falling output – and high inflation. Additionally, a struggling economy will drive up unemployment.

In other words, all three macroeconomic indicators are going in the wrong direction.

Has the US experienced it before?

The last time this happened in the U.S. was in the 1970s, another period when energy prices were skyrocketing.

Read full story at The Conversation: https://theconversation.com/why-stagflation-is-an-economic-nightmare-and-could-become-a-real-headache-for-biden-and-the-fed-if-it-emerges-in-the-us-179036

Image Courtesy: https://newsroom.ap.org/detail/EconomyGasPrices/e2cb8bcd1a234614b66f5b2374917fe2/photo?Query=oil%20price&mediaType=photo&sortBy=creationdatetime:desc&dateRange=Anytime&totalCount=5783&currentItemNo=4