By Aurangzeb Naqshbandi

There is new found aggression by the Congress not on the ground but in the media and on Twitter.

This could for sure be attributed to the removal of Randeep Singh Surjewala and appointment of Jairam Ramesh in his place as the Congress general secretary in-charge of communications.

Also, Rohan Gupta was replaced by Supriya Shrinate as the head of the party's social media department. 
Assisted among others by Pawan Khera and Shrinate, Ramesh has ensured an enhanced presence of the Congress in the media.

Ramesh is not a mass leader but is said to be good in drafting and meticulous planning. He also believes in transparency to an extent that he had installed transparent wooden doors during his tenure as a union minister to ensure no visitors go without meeting him.

While Surjewala would do press conferences throughout the day and hog all the limelight, Ramesh has by and large delegated that responsibility to his teammates.

He is also giving a lot of opportunities to others, especially the youngsters, to present the party's viewpoint on different platforms.

Ramesh himself is prompt in putting out the reaction to various issues.

From refuting reports to reprimanding party colleagues, he is fast enough to clear the air on any issue before it snowballs into a big controversy for his party.

But is this enough? No, the Congress needs to hit the ground running if it wants to regain the support of the people and reconnect with them. There is no substitute to hard work though the media could just be a small catalyst in the entire process.

For many years now, the grand old party seems to be in a dormant stage. There have been no programmes that envisage the leaders and workers to hit the road.

Former Congress president Rahul Gandhi has been planning a nationwide yatra since 2014 but that is yet to take shape. In the past, he tried on one or two occasions but had to cut it short due to reasons best known to him.

His aggression and prompt responses are largely seen on Twitter.

Read more
https://www.newsdrum.in/analysis/why-is-this-new-found-aggression-in-media-and-twitter-not-enough-for-the-resurrection-of-congress-57407.html