‌In his resignation letter to Congress president Sonia Gandhi, shared by news agencies, Dr Kumar wrote, "Having given my thoughtful consideration to the matter, I have concluded that in the present circumstances and consistent with my dignity, I can best subserve larger national cause outside the party fold."

‌He also commented : Election results in Punjab will surprise many. Based on the groundswell of popular support, I feel that AAP will comfortably form the next Government in Punjab and Bhagwant Mann will be the state's next chief minister.

 Punjab is ready for a sensational political change.

Goa : The Trinamool Congress has contended it will win 12 seats in Goa and its ally Maharashtrawadi Gomantak Party (MGP) will bag seven seats in the 40-member state Assembly.

‌UP : Former MLA Nadeem Javed has been declared as the Congress candidate from the Jaunpur Assembly constituency for Uttar Pradesh polls, in place of district president Faisal Tabrez Hassan.

‌Meanwhile, addressing a rally in Uttar Pradesh's Auraiya, Union Home Minister Amit Shah on Tuesday promised free gas cylinders to voters. "Holi is on 18th (March), counting is on 10th. Bring BJP government to power on 10th, free gas cylinders will reach your house on 18th," said Amit Shah.(ANI)

‌Punjab : Attending to a physical rally in Punjab’s Rajpura Tuesday, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi said, "Hum mar jayenge magar Punjab se shaanti khatam nahi hone denge. (We can give our lives to ensure peace remains in Punjab)."

‌Shiromani Akali Dal president Sukhbir Badal released a combined manifesto with Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) leader Randhir Benipal for upcoming Punjab Assembly election.

‌AAP chief Arvind Kejriwal held a roadshow in Ludhiana, just days before the Punjab elections. Speaking at a press conference earlier, Kejriwal had accused Congress and BJP of playing 'dirty politics' over the PM's security. The crowd in the pictures is disheartening amidst the pandemic.

‌Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Tuesday contended that the BJP government’s central strategies benefit big industrialists, whereas the poor and middle class are left to their fate; in a virtual address for the Manipur Assembly elections.