The Office’s Michael Scott once said ‘Never accept their first offer’ and as it turns out, Alessia Russo has rejected Manchester United’s contract offer. There are a lot of questions regarding Alessia Russo’s future at Manchester United. The 23-year-old forward joined United ahead of the 2020/21 season after leaving her college team - North Carolina Tar Heels. Currently preparing for UEFA Women’s Euro 2022 with the England National Team, Russo has made a name for herself in the WSL. 

Russo won the inaugural Manchester United Women Players' Player of the Year award after performing well this season where she scored 11 goals and grabbed 6 assists across all competitions for United. 

A few days back, Emma Sanders from the BBC reported that Russo had turned down an offer from United to renew her contract. Russo’s contract officially ends on June 30, 2022 but United have the option of extending it till 2023. According to the BBC, United will be exercising this extension option.

It is not the end of the world that Russo has rejected this first contract offer as she is expected to stay at United for atleast another season and with a home Euros on the cards, it is only logical that Russo would wait for the tournament to be over before making an official decision on her future. It's a waiting game. Things can change when the tournament starts kicking in.

Last night, Russo came off the bench and made an instant impact as she assisted Lauren Hemp for her second goal as England won 5-0 against the Netherlands in a friendly.

If Russo can replicate such performances in the Euros, she might attract the attention of several European powerhouses. She was linked to a move to NWSL club San Diego Wave FC in the summer; Coincidentally, ex-United manager Casey Stoney, who is now the head coach of Wave FC, brought Russo to United.

Fans are right to worry but the 2022/23 season will be a true test of United’s resolve to finish in one of the three UWCL spots; Marc Skinner's had more than enough time to adapt to the new job.