I watched The Batman on Today, I wanted to keep a non biased opinion on this before going for the watch because of the previous versions and projections of different actors & directors but have to agree that Matt Reeves and Robert Pattinson did a very good job. It was fresh not too humanly possible or science fiction.

The trend of darkening Batman and everything around him, which started with Keaton's Batman, has come to a logical conclusion. In The Batman, Gotham City is a real, breathing figure in and of itself. Cinematographer Grieg Fraser (who stunned us with Dune not long ago) has painted a gloomy, rain-soaked, decaying metropolis in amazing, stark colours — bright orange on black, for example — in an almost Lovecraftian style. It's gorgeous, with its own grim beauty, but it's also frightening. You'd like to learn more about it, but from a safe distance. Although Arkham Asylum is not shown in the film, it is most likely a haunted house with gibbering demons as its demons.

The criminal elements of Gotham, on the other hand, are scared to venture out at night because Batman works in the dark as well. Battinson is introduced by Reeves and Fraser in a style that is more akin to a boogeyman in a full-fledged horror film than a hero. Reeves understands what makes him so intimidating to criminals better than most others who have handled the role. We know he's simply a man dressed as a bat, but to Gotham's most unscrupulous denizens, he's a legend, a phantom lurking in the shadows, a symbol of a city that's had enough and is retaliating with a vengeance.

Zoe Kravitz is a fantastic Catwoman, possessing the perfect blend of sass, wit, and vulnerability. Jeffrey Wright, who should really narrate a few audiobooks in his spare time, plays Batman's most dependable ally, James Gordon, a lieutenant at this point, with uncharacteristic coolness.The superhero completes his arc from an angsty seeker of vengeance to a symbol of hope and the protector of Gotham City.

Overall an awesome take action packed, surprising, emotional, drama and acting of each actors. Just  Superb.