For women living in an orthodox society, marriage could be a cage. Especially women living in a 17th century orthodox society. Back in the time in Italy, abusive marriages were not unheard of. An overwhelming number of women met a pitiful fate at the hands of their husbands. And it was impossible to leave when even the law and order saw women as nothing more than objects of fantasy and relief. That is when, Aqua Tofana became their savior.

Thofania d’Amado, who was one such woman, did not give in to her ill-fate after all. She was executed for killing her husband to leave a 13 year old Guilia behind.

Guilia Tofana, titled 'Queen Of Poisons ' for some legit reasons, spent years of her life learning medicines, cosmetics and chemical mixing. Why, though? To save other women from having a life like her mother. Guilia came up with a complex poison – which she called Aqua Tofana.

Came in a gorgeously artistic bottle that could easily be camouflaged between the cosmetics of a woman, Aqua Tofana was a colorless, odorless and tasteless mix of arsenic, lead, belladonna and several other chemicals that she sold amongst her other products to make helpless wives stuck in abusive marriages to liberated widows.

This untraceable and slow poison would mimic a gastrointestinal illness and would turn into a painless death for the consumer. It is believed, Guilia's mother came up with this formula and Guilia improvised it, and her daughter, Girolima Spara joined the business.

Her small sale became a huge business in Rome with underground supply chains consisting of many women, men, backstreet abortionists, astrologers, witches, apothecaries and even priests.

This formula helped hundreds of women. However, one woman had a change of heart just before her husband was about to drink the soup and after some beating from him, she spilled the beans. By the times authorities could catch up to her, she fled. There are many theories about her death, or no-death at all, and one says she was hung after a confession in a torturous confrontation that she killed more than 600 men through her chain of death.