Sanju, who goes by the first name, a native of 24 North Parganas district of West Bengal, travelled from the eastern part of the country to the Northern part – Dharamshala (Himachal Pradesh), covered over 2000km via railways & roadways. In between, he had a halt in Lucknow, Uttar Pradesh, for the first T20 match.  

From Dharamshala he came to Mohali (Punjab) and as the first test between India and Sri Lanka would end, he would be travelling to the Southern India – Bangalore, covering over 2500km, for the second test and from there back to pavilion, travelling another 1900km.    

During the Sri Lanka tour of India, Sanju would be travelling over 6500km, staying away from the family for almost a month, and this nomadic life would be helping him to earn enough money to take care of his family of five, including the study of his three teenage children, for next three-four months.

He is selling the locally made merchandise of Team India at all the venues of the India-Sri Lanka tour – three T20 and two test matches.

“For the last two decades, I am travelling to various parts of the country where international cricket and IPL matches take place and sell team jerseys and tri-colour at the roadside leading to the cricket stadiums. This is a major source of my earnings,” says Sanju, 40, who has just one bigha agricultural land.

Sanju started with selling football jerseys of Kolkota giants Mohun Bagan and East Bengal and with IPL taking more of the cricket scene, he switched over to selling cricket jerseys.      

Sanju along with a dozen from Kolkota and surrounding areas are travelling whenever and wherever the ‘men in blue is playing in India and earning their livelihood by selling jerseys, caps and tri-colour. The latest addition due to COVID is the face mask with the Indian team logo.

“Today, I had sold merchandise worth Rs 15,000. In Mohali, the maximum craze is for the Virat Kohli’s jersey,” says Sanju, who is doing Tour De India with Raja Monda & Aritra Mukherjee from Kolkata, they too are in the merchandise selling business.