Quite a few stars are expected to leave the Red Devils in the summer. Hence can Jude Bellingham be an able replacement in the midfield? 

Jude Bellingham turned a lot of heads when he signed for Borussia Dortmund in July 2020. His former club Birmingham City retired his jersey No. 22 as soon as the 16-year-old departed the club. 

Though it seemed ridiculous at that time, seeing the 18-year-old midfielder's prowess now clears everything up. Bellingham has already made 80+ appearances for Borussia Dortmund in the last two years and he is drawing a lot of attention from other clubs!

Jude Bellingham has been a regular starter for Borussia Dortmund in the 2021/22 season. The youngster has played 26 Bundesliga games, in which he has scored 3 goals and has provided 7 assists for his teammates.

The 18-year-old's versatility means that he can play both as an attacking midfielder and a defensive midfielder. Hence this gives even more flexibility to the coach in setting up his formation around the youngster. 

Jude Bellingham has also represented the England National team 12 times. The Borussia Dortmund youngster is expected to be in the squad for the FIFA World Cup 2022 and Gareth Southgate is also a huge supporter of the player. 

Keeping all this in mind, will Jude Bellingham help Manchester United? A short and simple answer, Yes! Especially with Paul Pogba leaving, Bellingham could easily slot in and get playing time in Manchester United's midfield. 






Can United swoop both Bellingham and Rice in the summer? 

Manchester United have been rumoured to be after West Ham United midfielder Declan Rice. But the Red Devils would have to cough up £150 million for the midfielder's services. On the other hand, they could sign Jude Bellingham for half of that sum. 

The Red Devils could even sign both the midfielders. But this would heavily depend on their qualification for the Champions League next season. Nevertheless, a midfield trio of Declan Rice, Jude Bellingham, and Bruno Fernandes does look very enticing on paper for Manchester United! 