
 An apt title for a band that has been in existence for nearly 40 years, ‘Survive’ is the sixteenth studio album by the legendary Finnish power metal heavyweights Stratovarius, and right off the bat it can be summed up in one word “Ridiculously awesome!” Oh sorry! That was two words. But regardless, that is the apt word for ‘Survive’ in a nutshell as the band has gone into full ‘survival mode’.
The album is the definition of catchy, jam packed to the brim with giant epic hooks and melodic sing-along choruses while never detracting from the overall musicianship of the album which is spectacular. 
The guitar work is heavy, epic, melodic, shreddy, the keys really set the mood, the drums are bombastic, the bass is audible and the vocals as usual are awesome.
‘Survive’ is among the most powerful openers in power metal history, instantly grabbing attention and not letting it go, with ‘Demand’ being an even more triumphant follow up.
‘Broken’ is more of a mid-paced, keyboard-driven track symphonic metal with fat beefy guitar riffs and an epic feel while ‘Firefly’ is a bit more streamlined melodic track which is upbeat, relaxed and epic as hell.
‘Frozen In Time’ again goes off in more epic symphonic metal direction with some great melodies while ‘World On Fire’ is a no nonsense straight in the face power metal track. 
‘Glory Days’ feels like a reminiscence of some sort of old grand victory with an epic and nostalgic feel embedded into it, progressing with hair-raising majesty.
‘Voices Of Thunder’ is the perfect final track, a 11 minute tracking with a strong progressive rock approach, offering some of the band’s best melodies, hooks and guitar work ending with a grand crescendo.
‘Survive’ is heavy, epic, dynamic, mature and expertly crafted while being incredibly fun with incredibly grand production. It unapologetically pays several nods to several older songs of Stratovarius while still trying out something new, making it both new and yet familiar. With ‘Survive’ Stratovarius is not merely surviving, but also thriving and inspiring.
Score: 10/10