Shashi Tharoor an Indian politician and an Indian National Congress MP ,
Persued PhD at the age of 22.
A UN DIPLOMAT for many years. He speaks against the British colonial rule the tortures that the British did, he speaks for India. He graduated from PhD at the age of 22 and has represented India globally in many debates, conferences and in organisations like UN.
He is not like other politicians who simply oppose and disrupt the Assembly or Parliament when they are not in power.
He was chosen to pursue St. Stephen's College in Delhi without an interview, which is quite uncommon.
Shashi Tharoor, a self-made global success story who embodies real meritocratic desire, has the potential to improve the appeal of the Congress to a "new India." A traditional Congress neta cannot accomplish this. He is not a political lightweight despite what his detractors claim.
It's simple to understand that Tharoor is running for Congress, not for the office of president. Although they make a great conversation starter, his chances of defeating Modi in a general election have little to do with his aptitude for the job at hand. And that is to assume leadership of a political party that has essentially died under the control of its dynasts and give it new vitality.
Mallikarjun Kharge, his main rival, is a skilled politician. Veteran of Karnataka politics, he served as the Congress' leader in the Lok Sabha for the duration of a full legislative term.
Making a Dalit the president would be a potent symbolic act on the part of the Congress. However, he is also 80 years old and a supporter of the Gandhi family, which are hardly the finest attributes for a leader of the Congress.
Kharge appears to be the clear favourite. Even the G-23, a group of unhappy Congressmen who had previously called for organisational reform, are on his side.
If Tharoor loses, Congress will revert to its dynastic past and Tharoor will resume his role as St. Stephen's College's former president of the College Union Society.
