Hyderabad FC hosted Mumbai City FC on Sunday at Shivchhatrapati Sports Complex in Pune. After a 2 year gap due to world epidemic the league is back again from bio bubble to its home and away format. 
Defending champions Hyderabad FC starts their campaign against Mumbai City FC with a draw. Hyderabad had been the champions last season and Mumbai were the runners up in the recently concluded Durand Cup. The match was dynamic with both teams tried hard to clinch victory.
The match started off well for Mumbai City as Hyderabad's Chinglensana puts the ball in his own net from a cross initiated by Bipin Singh. This resulted in a lead for Mumbai City FC. Though pressure for Mumbai were not lowered as Hyderabad equalised the scoreboard in the 45+2nd minute by a goal from penalty by Joao Victor. 
The half was dominated by Mumbai City FC. They looked more confident with their passes. Though the goal came by an own goal but overall the half was dominated by MCFC. But the penalty to HFC helped them score the equaliser. 
The wait for the second half was over when Halicharan Singh in the 51st minute gave Hyderabad their lead with his beautiful finish. Halicharan Narzary got a good pass from Mohammad Yasir and made no mistake to convert it into the goal. 
In the 68th minute a cool and composed finish from Greg Stewart gave Mumbai their equaliser and kept them alive in the game but Joao Victor's another goal in the 76th minute brough mumbaikars into their feet as he scored a thunderous header into the nets and puts his team into lead once more. 
In the 85th minute, Mumbai City FC again equalized the score as Alberto Noguera with a simple tap put the ball into the net. 
The Shree Shivchhatrapati sports complex witnessed a 3-3 draw between Hyderabad FC and Mumbai City FC. Though Mumbai dominated in the first half but in the second half Hyderabad came in with all their guns blazing and scored an early goal. Hyderabad lead twice but both times Mumbai found their equalisers and the match finally ended in a draw. 
