Focusing on the greener side of the grass and being optimistic helps you love longers than relying more on the pessimistic side. 

The conclusion was made by the researchers from Boston University after following 233 men over 22 years. 

The study states that the participants who had more optimistic attitude had better levels of emotional well being and they experienced stress differently and occasionally than those who were more pessimistic. 

Those who were optimistic reported to have more positive moods and lower negative moods. 

“This study tests one possible explanation, assessing if more optimistic people handle daily stress more constructively and therefore enjoy better emotional well-being,” Lewina O. Lee, PhD, a study author and clinical psychologist at the National Center for Posttraumatic Stress Disorder at the VA Boston Healthcare System, and an assistant professor of psychiatry at Boston University School of Medicine, said in a press release.

“Stress is known to have a negative impact on our health. By looking at whether optimistic people handle day-to-day stressors differently, our findings add to knowledge about how optimism may promote good health as people age,” she added.

The benefits of positive thinking

The new study adds to a body of research linking optimism with better health outcomes.

A 2019 study by the same research team found that the most optimistic men and women lived 11 to 15 percent longer than the least optimistic people, even after controlling for confounding factors such as chronic disease, educational attainment, and health behaviors like exercise, diet, and alcohol use.

“In the 21st century, a lot of evidence has emerged on optimism and positivity and how they can influence immune systems, brain function, and physical health,” Jagdish Khubchandani, PhD, a professor of public health at New Mexico State University, told Healthline.

“Too much stress and negative states of mind weaken the neuroendocrine and immune responses of the body, causing vulnerability to disease or weaker recovery from diseases as the body cannot mount a strong response to stress and disease,” he added. “It is a complex interplay of disease/stressor vulnerability, perception of disease/stress, and the reaction of our body to stressors/disease that are interlinked.”

Read more  - https://www.healthline.com/health-news/look-on-the-bright-side-optimists-tend-to-live-longer-than-pessimists