Today Bihar Chief Minister Nitish Kumar distributed portfolios and kept the crucial home department, giving him direct control over the state police, hours after growing the cabinet. Additionally, the JD(U) leader held all of the general administration, cabinet secretariat, election, and "any other departments not entrusted to others" to himself. Tejashwi Prasad Yadav, his deputy and a member of the RJD, was also handed important portfolios, including those for rural work, urban housing and development, health, and road maintenance. Tej Pratap Yadav, Yadav's older brother, has been entrusted environmental, forestry, and climate change.

Only Bijendra Yadav (power and planning and development) and Vijay Kumar Chaudhary (finance, commercial tax, and parliamentary affairs) have more than one portfolio, in addition to the chief executive and the deputy chief executive.

A total of 31 new members, including Tej Pratap, the elder son of RJD chief Lalu Pratap Yadav, were added to the two-member Bihar Cabinet earlier in the day. This cabinet was originally made up of Chief Minister Nitish Kumar and his deputy, Tejashwi Prasad Yadav.

16 of the ministers who took the oath during the swearing-in ceremony were from the RJD, the state's largest party in the assembly, 11 were from Nitish Kumar's JD(U), two were from the Congress, one was from the Hindustani Awam Morcha (HAM), the party of the ex chief minister Jitan Ram Manjhi, and one was an independent.

Five Muslims make in the new Bihar cabinet, compared to only one in the previous NDA administration, which was overthrown on August 9 after Nitish severed ties with it in favour of the RJD-led coalition.

In keeping with Tejashwi Yadav's broader social outreach, the RJD has granted representation to the upper castes as well as a large number of seven seats to Yadavs.

Most of the ministers the JD(U) appointed under the previous NDA government, including Vijay Kumar Chaudhary, Bijendra Yadav, Shravan Kumar, and Leshi Singh, were kept on. Additionally appointed as ministers were Ashok Choudhary, Sanjay Jha, Madan Sahni, Sheela Kumari, Sunil Kumar, Mohd Zama Khan, and Jayant Raj.