Pensioners, self-funded retirees and working older Australians are being offered new financial incentives to sell their family home earlier and downsize to something smaller.

The Prime Minister will use today's Liberal campaign launch in Brisbane to unveil the new policy, aimed at freeing up larger homes in the property market for younger families.

The policy has two key planks — the first is an extension of an existing tax break allowing up to $300,000 from the sale of a family home to be placed into superannuation without a penalty.

The second is another tweak encouraging pensioners to sell by exempting the proceeds of the sale from the assets test for two years instead of one.

Prime Minister Scott Morrison said it was aimed at clearing hurdles for older Australians to sell their home and put more larger properties on the market for those looking to get in.

"We are now giving Australians more choice to decide how they want to live the next stage of their life by removing financial barriers for people wanting to downsize their home," Mr Morrison said.

"By removing barriers for Australians downsizing to residences that better suit their needs and lifestyle, we are helping to free up larger homes for younger families".

Federal Labor has promised to match the policy, with Opposition Leader Anthony Albanese describing it as a "modest" policy.

"This suggestion by the government is a practical one," Mr Albanese said.

"We will support it, but we will have much more in our offer to the Australian people next Saturday."

Labor used its campaign launch two weeks ago to launch a housing policy, outlining a shared-equity scheme aimed at helping people to buy into the market. 

Changes to super rules

Under the current rules, anyone aged over 65 can sell their home of 10 years or more and place $300,000 of the proceeds into their superannuation.

The $300,000 is outside of contribution caps, and so attracts significant tax breaks.

Couples can double the benefit, and contribute $300,000 each to their superannuation.

The age limit was already due to be lowered to 60 from July 1, but the Coalition has promised to instead lower it to 55 if re-elected.

Read more
https://www.abc.net.au/news/2022-05-15/coalition-offers-incentives-for-older-australians-to-downsize/101067920