Former President Donald Trump complained that the "vicious" January 6 committee and New York Attorney General are targeting his adult children as part of their investigations.

"It's a very unfair situation for my children. Very, very unfair," Trump told The Washington Examiner in an interview published Friday.

"It's a disgrace what's going on. They're using these things to try and get people's minds off how incompetently our country is being run. And they don't care. They'll go after children."

Trump's eldest three children, Donald Jr., Ivanka, and Eric, have long been closely intertwined with their father's businesses and political career.

The House select committee investigating the January 6 Capitol riot on Thursday asked Ivanka Trump for her voluntary cooperation with its probe.

Ivanka Trump was a senior advisor to her father during his presidency and was present at the White House as the insurrection unfolded, committee chair Rep. Bennie Thompson said in a letter.

"They are using whatever powers they have. They couldn't care less. They are vicious people," Trump said of the January 6 committee to The Washington Examiner.

"You know Ivanka very well, and you know the quality of her," he told the outlet. "For them to have to go through all this stuff is a disgrace."

Donald Trump faced accusations of nepotism throughout his presidency after installing his eldest daughter and her husband, Jared Kushner, into key roles, despite having no previous qualifying experience.

Separately, New York Attorney General Letitia James's office has been conducting a probe into the Trump Organization's financial dealings.

James said the investigation has uncovered "significant evidence" indicating that the Trump Organization used fraudulent and misleading asset valuations on multiple properties.

Last week, she took legal action to enforce the subpoenas issued to Donald Trump and his children Donald Jr. and Ivanka.

James wrote on Twitter that Trump's eldest two children had been "closely involved in the transactions in question."

Donald Trump Jr. is currently an executive vice president of the Trump Organization, and Ivanka Trump has held senior roles, including overseeing developments and acquisitions.

Eric Trump has already sat for depositions with the attorney general's office, during which he invoked his Fifth Amendment rights more than 500 times, court filings showed.