
Recently, a 40-y-old man asked me, “doctor, can I reverse (permanently eliminate/cure) diabetes?” I stated, “reversal is a definitive word, let us just stick to remission (normalisation of blood glucose without use of medicines with no guarantee of permanent reversal)”. I further told him “I will now explain whether or not it can be applied to you.”
A decade earlier, reversal of diabetes was considered the ‘holy grail’ of medicine. Physicians dreamt about it but could not achieve it. Behind this failure was inadequate knowledge about physiology of diabetes. As research progressed, we started getting more insights about the role being played by the liver in generating and sustaining diabetes. When a person eats a lot of saturated fats and calories, liver fat cells rapidly increase in numbers, and when the liver is full of fat, it starts to leak creamy substances (known as free fatty acids) in the blood. Such cream has a great tendency to get deposited in muscle, pancreas, and heart arteries as well. Deposition in pancreas impairs functioning of vital insulin producing cells, thus critically decreasing in insulin levels in the body. The blood sugar rises and does not go down easily.
Having known this cascade of events now, the next big question was how to remove this creamy layer from various organs? Simple solution is take away the hand that feeds the cream! A nice experiment in the UK made it look all so easy and started the ball rolling for ‘reversal of diabetes’. Ten years ago, 12 patients with diabetes were given very low calorie liquid meals (less than half of the calories that we require daily) for eight weeks under controlled conditions. Investigators were immensely surprised when blood sugar of all patients normalised within a couple of days. Half of the fat and cream from liver and pancreas rapidly disappeared in 4 to 6 weeks. Patients remained without medications for a short period of time.
Read more - https://indianexpress.com/article/lifestyle/health-specials/can-we-reverse-diabetes-with-diet-8191159/