A study, published in the online journal PLOS ONE that was taken forward by Stanford University based on the link between accessing hormone replacement therapy (HRT)  before the age of 18 and the positive mental health outcomes for certain transgender people. 

The study states that transgender youths who received hormone replacement treatment earlier have better mental health outcomes and lower substance abuse when compared to transgender individuals who waited until adulthood.  

"Hormone replacement therapy" is a blanket term that covers several different hormone-related treatments, including the use of estrogen to treat female menopause. The type of hormone replacement therapy covered in this study is a treatment that alters a person’s levels of hormones like testosterone and estrogen to better reflect their gender identity. 

Largest survey of transgender adults 

The researchers analyzed data from the 2015 U.S. Transgender Survey, which comprises survey responses from 27,715 transgender people nationwide. Participants, who were at least 18 when they were surveyed, completed extensive questionnaires about their lives. 

Results were analyzed based on when participants began hormone therapy: 119 began at age 14 or 15 (early adolescence), 362 began at age 16 or 17 (late adolescence), 12,257 began after their 18th birthday (adulthood), and 8,860 participants, who served as the control group, wanted but never received hormone therapy. 

The participants answered several questions about their mental health, including their history of suicidal thoughts and suicide attempts, and their history of binge drinking and illicit drug use. They completed a questionnaire to assess whether they had experienced severe psychological distress, meaning they met criteria for a diagnosable mental illness, within the prior month. 

Read more - https://med.stanford.edu/news/all-news/2022/01/mental-health-hormone-treatment-transgender-people.html 

https://www.verywellmind.com/hrt-trans-teens-5216760