Sara Begum wept with joy when she received a phone call from her son Javaid Ahmad Mir on 4 May from a jail in Saudi Arabia, where the 37-year-old Kashmiri has been incarcerated for over two years in what Indian officials have informed his family is a security-related matter.



Mir, the father to a two-year-old daughter, was a supervisor in a Chinese restaurant in the eastern province of Dammam when he was arrested on 18 March 2020, a few hours after he shared his WhatsApp number over Facebook with another user based in Iran.



While it wasn’t the first time Mir was phoning since he was incarcerated in the Dammam jail, his family members—a Shia Muslim family of modest means living in Kashmir’s central Budgam district—erupted in cheers.



Explaining their momentary jubilation, they said that Mir was allowed his first phone call in February 2021—one year after he was arrested—and had called at least once a month until earlier this year.



When they did not hear from him in March and April, they feared that he may have been one of the 81 men put to death by the Saudi authorities in the mass execution on 12 March. Half of the executed men belonged to the minority Shia community in the Sunni-majority country. Human rights groups allege those executed were denied due process, lawyers, and convictions were based on confessions obtained through torture.


In March 2021, the Ministry of External Affairs informed parliament that 1,570 prisoners of Indian origin were lodged in jails of Saudi Arabia, the highest number of convicts and under-trials of all foreign countries. In August 2021, Harish Bangera, an air conditioning technician from Udupi, was released after 20 months in a Saudi jail for an allegedly defamatory Facebook post against Crown Prince Mohammad bin Salman that he did not write.


His release came about after his wife filed a complaint and the Udupi police found that impersonators were behind the post that landed him in jail and submitted the translated chargesheet to the Saudi authorities.



Read more -  https://article-14.com/post/jailed-for-2-years-in-saudi-arabia-for-sending-phone-no-to-iran-kashmiri-man-gets-no-help-from-indian-govt--62ccde244ec47