When Navjot Singh Sidhu raised Charanjit Singh Channi's hand to endorse him as Congress’ chief ministerial candidate for Punjab at a virtual rally on February 6, Congress leaders were visibly relieved. 

For over the past several weeks, Sidhu had been on a warpath with his own party, demanding that he, and not Channi, be the CM face. 

But the Congress leadership was unwilling to concede to his demand as sidelining the Punjab’s first Dalit Chief Minister would have had political repercussions for the party in Punjab, and beyond.

There was unanimity in the Congress that Channi needed one more chance as he had managed to bring the party back into the game after taking over the reins from 79-year-old Captain Amarinder Singh in September. 

Amarinder Singh had come under fire from critics and party colleagues over his autocratic style of functioning, which they felt was a major factor in the anti-incumbency against the Congress government. It was Sidhu who had then led the banner of revolt against the septuagenarian and forced his unceremonious exit. 

By doing so, the maverick cricketer-turned-politician took revenge against Amarinder Singh who had opposed his anointment as the Punjab Congress President.

Ironically, all the legislators who had thrown in their lot with Sidhu in overthrowing Amarinder Singh turned against him when it came to appointing him the Chief Minister. He was pipped to the coveted post by Channi. 

A similar situation played out this time too. Not many backed Sidhu as Congress’ chief ministerial candidate, but he remained defiant, and made no secret of his ambition. Probably unable to reconcile to his fluctuating fortunes in the party within some months of his appointment as the Punjab Congress chief, Sidhu's ire and desperation were visible. 

In the run up to the announcement by former Congress President Rahul Gandhi at the February 6 rally, Sidhu upped the ante by questioning the authority of the party high command and attacking Channi whose selection seemed like a foregone conclusion. However, hours before the announcement by Gandhi, Sidhu issued a statement that he would abide by the high command's decision.

Read full article here: https://www.google.com/amp/s/www.moneycontrol.com/news/opinion/punjab-elections-the-sidhu-channi-peace-could-be-temporary-heres-why-8066401.html/amp