This weekend’s Women’s African Football Championship (Wafcon) final between Morocco and South Africa in Morocco marks a new era. With it women’s football in Africa has reached a second phase of its development.

If the first phase was about the rise of a few superpowers, led by Nigeria, then the new phase is about a spread of teams rising to the top as development of the game takes hold on the continent.

Wafcon is the women’s Afcon, the biggest national tournament on the continent, held every two years. The championship final is between two teams that have never won the trophy, which has previously been dominated by Nigeria, who won 11 of the 13 Wafcon tournaments to date including the inaugural one in 1991. South Africa beat Zambia and Morocco beat Nigeria to set up the final.

And these top four Wafcon teams also automatically qualify for the Women’s World Cup final stage in Australia and New Zealand in 2023.

Two of these – Morocco and Zambia – will be representing the continent for the first time at the world’s premier football event, held every four years. This, along with their success at Wafcon, tells the story of how the women’s game continues to develop apace in Africa despite the challenges.

The first phase
Football was introduced in Africa as a colonial sport. While women in Nigeria, for example, were recorded playing the sport in the 1930s, they were discouraged from doing so. By the 1970s and 1980s competitive women’s clubs began emerging.

The first phase of the development featured first movers such as Nigeria, Ghana, Cameroon and South Africa. These countries used early growth of their local women’s football in the 1990s and 2000s to establish an advantage over the rest of the continent.

Playing regularly in the local leagues provided the competition and fitness necessary to dominate at that stage. While Nigeria began to win the continental trophy regularly, from 1991, it was challenged by Ghana, Equatorial Guinea, Cameroon, and South Africa with intermittent success.

Read more: https://theconversation.com/morocco-vs-south-africa-as-womens-football-enters-a-new-era-187267