By Tanzila Shaikh 

The first quarter of 2022 has witnessed big hits like RRR, Pushpa, and currently KGF 2 is forcing the people to take a trip to the cinema theatres. The easing up of Covid-19 protocols and re-allowing full occupancy have helped in somewhat restoring the normalcy of the pre-Covid era. And with this, advertisers are looking forward to coming back to theatres to acquire the young audience.

It is noteworthy that regional movies such as RRR, Pushpa, and KGF 2 have done more business than mainstream Bollywood movies, although Bollywood movies like ‘Gangubai Kathiawadi’ and ‘The Kashmir Files’ were also quite profitable, leading to advertisers’ piqued interest in movies from the South. Apart from in-cinema ads, many brands have also associated themselves with South Indian celebrities as their brand ambassadors. 

Speaking on advertisers' interest, Vishal Anand, Chief Sales and Revenue Officer at INOX Leisure Limited, said, “The movie business has bounced in the first quarter of 2022. The off-take in cinema advertising has really shot up. While we are yet to achieve the pre-Covid numbers but we believe if things go smoothly like this, we will be back very soon. The conversations amongst brand and the cinema houses have started.”

While the attention span of an average user has decreased and now lingers at 5-7 seconds in the outside world, people actually sit patiently in cinema theatres while the ads are running. Thereby in-cinema ads are considered to have more impact than other mediums and, therefore, it enjoys a standardised ad rate. 

Talking about the effect on ad rates due to hit movies in 2022, Dhirender Suri, Head of Product – Cinema, iTV (GroupM), said, “Ad revenues have grown as compared to 2021. In fact, if we compare 2019 OND box office numbers, we see a 10% increase in box office collection in 2021. In 2022 from Mid-February, things started to pick up and in the month of March 2022, cinema witnessed massive footfalls which were mainly due to big tickets releases. This has led to an interest in advertising with the advertising rates being comparable to pre-Covid rates.”

Read the full story here:- https://bestmediainfo.com/2022/04/indepth-with-backtoback-hits-in-the-first-quarter-are-advertisers-ready-to-roll-the-dice-on-incinema-advertising