Canberra remain in the hunt for the NRL finals after clinching a 28-22 comeback win against a Newcastle side determined to defy a week of off-field turmoil.
The Raiders were unconvincing on Sunday afternoon and still need to win their remaining games against Manly and Wests Tigers to have any hope of finishing in eighth spot.
A 20-0 second half will give the Raiders confidence heading into the final fortnight of the regular season but in his first game back from suspension, coach Ricky Stuart would have been frustrated by his side's slow start.
The Knights' turbulent week was headlined by an NRL Integrity Unit investigation into co-captain Kalyn Ponga and Kurt Mann.
But just as they did after David Klemmer's run-in with a club trainer, Newcastle managed to divorce themselves from the dramas off the field to ambush their opposition on it.
On the back of a perfect completion rate and some fruitful kicking from Anthony Milford, the Knights produced their best 40 minutes since the opening month of the season to lead Canberra 22-8 at the break.
Edrick Lee and debutant Krystian Mapapalangi were called into the side after Enari Tuala and Bradman Best were dropped for disciplinary issues and they formed a promising combination on the left.
On the other side, Dom Young bagged a double of his own to affirm his status as one of the Knights' best players in a poor season.
The Raiders were stymied by handling errors and ill discipline in the first half but remained in the contest thanks to some wayward conversion attempts from Milford.
The Knights' goal-line defence has been vulnerable all season and was twice penetrated by tries from kicks in the opening exchanges of the second half.
The game no longer on their terms, the Knights were unable to fight the Green Machine as it rolled forward.
Raiders prop forwards Josh Papali'i and Joe Tapine combined to gift Jack Wighton the runaway try that sealed victory.
Newcastle are now staring down the possibility of finishing the season with their second-worst home record in club history.