On 3 October 2021, pastor Nandu Nathanael Singh, 45, and his wife Savita were leading a small congregation in offering Sunday prayers at the home of vegetable vendor Neeraj Maurya, near Azamgarh city’s government hospital, when around 11 am, members of Hindu extremist group Bharat Raksha Dal barged in, saffron stoles partially covering their faces, and began to take photographs. 



Accompanying the Hindu extremists were local media personnel and policemen, Singh said. As the assembled devotees watched in horror, the pastor and his wife were led away. They were taken to Kotwali police station in the heart of Azamgarh city in eastern Uttar Pradesh (UP), along with Maurya. 


The couple was sent to jail on charges of conducting illegal religious conversions, despite Maurya’s pleas that he was still a Hindu, as were the others who had gathered to pray at his home.

 Through the year 2021, as many as 103 cases of harassment of Christians were reported from across UP, and more than a dozen  Christian pastors were jailed for allegedly conducting illegal conversions to Christianity. 
 

The cases of illegal conversion brought against pastors were filed under the state’s new anti-conversion law, the Uttar Pradesh Prohibition of Unlawful Conversion of Religion Act, 2021, which makes religious conversion a cognisable and non-bailable offence. 


Pastors charged under the law face up to 10 years in prison in cases where conversion is proven to be effected through misrepresentation, force, undue influence, coercion, allurement or other fraudulent means. The law made it mandatory for those seeking to convert to give advance notice to the state of their intent. 


A public interest litigation challenged the law in the Allahabad high court, where the case awaits a final hearing.

Pastors Heckled, Attacked

Christian pastors have held prayer services and delivered sermons in homes or in prayer halls across UP for several years, but a narrative of forced conversions has gained ground recently, prompting Hindutva groups to heckle and attack pastors and others leading Christian prayers. 

Read More - https://article-14.com/post/up-s-growing-attacks-on-christians-police-use-bible-prayer-groups-as-evidence-of-illegal-conversion-by-pastors-628456af30552