Prime Minister Anthony Albanese has brought a full-court press of frontbenchers and a bevy of high-powered business leaders on his first prime ministerial visit to Indonesia, as his government seeks to reboot Australia's relationships in the region amid heightened anxiety over China's rapid rise.

In choosing Jakarta as the destination for his first official bilateral trip, Mr Albanese is following a familiar flight path to his predecessors and making the same statement about Australia's hierarchy of foreign relations.

Whether he takes to the subtle arts of statesmanship and regional diplomacy, is just one of the many tests Mr Albanese is about to be marked on.

The Prime Minister had an early taste, flying to Tokyo for the Quad Summit within hours of being sworn in.

In Jakarta, he will be joined by Foreign Minister Penny Wong, Trade Minister Don Farrell and Industry Minister Ed Husic and nearly a dozen business leaders including the bosses of Wesfarmers, Telstra and Commonwealth Bank.

"My government is determined to have better relations across the Indo-Pacific region," Mr Albanese declared before flying out on Sunday.

"This early visit with a very high-level delegation from Australia indicates to our Indonesian friends the importance that we place on that relationship."

The Albanese government has inherited a solid relationship from the Coalition, which inked a long-awaited trade deal with the globe's largest Muslim democracy and forged closer strategic ties.

Still, the pandemic has prevented the economic partnership from reaching anything near its full potential.

The deal — which aims to eliminate tariffs and boost trade and investment across multiple sectors – was signed in 2019 but was only ratified in Indonesia as the pandemic began.

Indonesia, a country of more than 270 million people that is hosting this year's G20 summit, is yet to crack Australia's list of top 10 trading partners.

Labor has accused the Coalition of neglecting its South-East Asian neighbours and has promised to invest an extra $470 million in aid in the region and work with Jakarta to deliver a $200 million "climate and infrastructure partnership".

https://www.abc.net.au/news/2022-06-06/albanese-heads-to-indonesia-on-first-bilateral-visit/101127598