At last the chemicals used to make feeding bottle rubber sippers for new born babies to daily used diapers to napkins to contraceptive devices are all affected with good amount of genome spoiling chemicals. They have become inevitable largely in well educated well to do urban Indian's and urban American's life who are the real victim to chemical revolution mediated genome spoiling chemical substances. These chemicals through daily usage entering into air, water, soil, skin, food, largely in human bodies to a lesser extent in domestic, peri domestic and wild animal populations in these countries are a real threat to the next generation kids. Anything used, or dumped into environment in these countries by these societies spoils the rivers, forests, soils, atmospheric air, wild animals become intoxicated with these genome spoiling chemicals is not an exaggeration.
Evidences are plenty available with research on animal models and simulated conditions, but well developed nations who are conscious about health care already passed resolutions to prevent entry of toxins from above products with a mandatory requirement of screening all products including packed food ingredients for the deadly category of 'Endocrine Disrupting Chemicals' (EDC). What is the role of these toxicants in kids ? EDCs largely mimic endocrine hormones and neurohormones which are vital signalling and information technology systems in cell to cell communication means it is a dangerous state of affair. EDCs alter gut microbiota (the second brain), thereby cause imbalance in every step of biosynthesis of saliva, enzymes, co-enzymes, hormones, neurohormones, blood cells, and all other biological functions of the body.
We as well educated parents are directly responsible for spoiling genome in our kids, we are accountable for metabolic disorders in next generation. Can we stop spoiling genome in kids with the larger interest of preventing metabolic disorders in 22nd century kids ?

Dr.Parthiban Marimuthu PhD
Medical Anthropologist & PreClinical and Clinical Research Scientist
*Mandate of LifeScience Intelligentsia Foundation