The first quintuplets known to have survived infancy that became a sideshow attraction, 1930. Identical girls were born just outside Callander, Ontario. All five survived to adulthood.

 In their memoirs " We Were Five"and "Family Secrets: The Dionne Quintuplets’ Autobiography", the sisters describe the exploitation they endured as children.

The identical quintuplet girls were, in order of birth:

Yvonne Édouilda Marie Dionne (died 2001)

Annette Lillianne Marie Allard (living)

Cécile Marie Émilda Langlois (living)

Émilie Marie Jeanne Dionne (died 1954)

Marie Reine Alma Houle (died 1970)

Oliva Dionne was approached by fair exhibitors for Chicago's Century of Progress exhibition within days of the girls' birth, seeking to put the quintuplets on display and show them to the world. At the time it was not unusual for so-called "incubator babies" to be displayed at fairs and other exhibitions.The parents were persuaded to agree on the advice of the doctor present at the birth, Dr. Dafoe, and the family priest, Father Daniel Routhier.Dafoe Hospital and Nursery was built for the five girls and their new caregivers. The girls were moved from the farmhouse to this nursery on September 21, 1934, and lived there until they were nine years old.

In March 1935 the Dionne Quintuplets Act through government officially made the girls wards of the Crown and extended guardianship to the age of eighteen. Although Oliva Dionne had a seat on the Board of Guardians, he rarely attended meetings as he felt his vote wouldn't matter against the other three guardians: Dr. Dafoe, Joseph Valin and Minister of Welfare David Croll. These three guardians met once a month and had full control over business matters involving the quintuplets. They were involved in caring for the girls, managing money, and creating contracts for business opportunities such as appearances in films and commercials. 

The stated reason for removing the quintuplets from their parents' legal custody was to ensure their survival and protection from promoters.

The government realized there was enormous public interest in the sisters and proceeded to engender a tourist industry around them.

 The girls were made wards of the provincial Crown, planned until they reached the age of 18.