Gabrielle Dee Gifford is a retired American politician and gun control advocate who served as a member of the United States House of Representatives representing Arizona's 8th congressional district from January 2007 until January 2012. She resigned due to a severe brain injury underwent during an assassination attempt.

 A member of the Democratic Party, she was the third woman in Arizona's history to be elected to the U.S. Congress.

She served in the Arizona House of Representatives from 2001 until 2003 and the Arizona Senate from 2003 until 2005
 
She had just begun her third term in January 2011 when she was shot in the head in an assassination attempt and mass shooting just outside of Tucson during an event with constituents.

 Giffords has since regained much of her ability to walk, speak, read, and write. She was greeted by a standing ovation upon her return to the House floor in August 2011.

 She attended President Obama's State of the Union address on January 24, 2012, and appeared on the floor of the House the following day, at which time she formally submitted her resignation, earning a standing ovation and accolades from her colleagues and the leadership of the House.

Though a moderate on the issue during her time in Congress, Giffords has since become an active advocate for gun control.

 In January 2013, she and her husband launched Americans for Responsible Solutions, a non-profit organization and Super-PAC which later joined with the Law Center to Prevent Gun Violence to become Giffords. 

On January 8, 2014, Giffords marked the third anniversary of the shooting by going skydiving. 

On July 1, 2022, the White House announced that Giffords would be awarded the Presidential Medal of Freedom. 

In 2020 she spoke on the third night of the 2020 Democratic National Convention, urging action on gun control. She worked with a speech therapist for months in rehearsal for the speech, and also performed "America" on the French horn, an instrument she had played as a teen, as a symbol of her recovery.

Source: Wikipedia.