Freedom of the press refers to the minimal interference of the state in the operations of the Press or any form of mass communication like print media, electronic media, digital media with a clear exception to the misuse of this freedom by these stakeholders. However the problem with the media these days is rather than challenging the power and holding their accountability, they seem to be working as the institution of power. Albeit the constitution guarantees freedom of speech and expression under Article 19 where it doesn't mention anywhere the 'freedom' of the press, the provisions of this fundamental right are evident enough that anyone who chooses to write in a newspaper or provides information is exercising their right to express freely. Anyhow the government over time has slyly reduced the purview of this right.  
The recent amendments in 2019 in the RTI Act of 2005 is a huge menace to the very basis of this Act that ensures transparency and accountability in the administration. The RTI is a fundamental right through which the citizens of this country have access to information on major issues like pension, ration, education, health etc. But with the recent amendments, the central government has taken away the authority of the officials to work autonomously and freely.
Even the legislature of our country does have the authority to amend the constitution as and when they want or when the national interest has been threatened. But what exactly is ‘national interest’? This entire culture of putting our national interest above anything, even if it’s our rights, is somewhat bleak for me. You decide to go against the government, you become anti-nationalist. You can’t question the government's actions and if you do, you become the reason for public unrest by inciting offense.
I understand that reasonable limitations are required to practice this right as often it has been used by people for their selfish motives but the government needs to understand that INDIA IS A DEMOCRACY. The government can’t shut everyone’s mouth in the name of ‘protection of national interest’. People will speak, they will stand up if they feel something’s not right.

Image source: Nyaaya