From League winners to Ballon D’or winners, Croatia is home to many of the world’s finest footballers. Indeed, the secret recipe to a winning team is to have a Croat in your team — think Kovačić for Chelsea, Modric for Real Madrid, and Lovren for Liverpool. 


many clubs having keen eyes on the Croatian club for young talents. Such a gamble was made on a 22-year-old Marcelo Brozović back in 2015, by Inter Milan.


His passing range and tireless work off the ball in the new role had earned him a new lease of life at the San Siro. This time, the opportunity to shine in the black and blue jersey will not have gone to waste. Today, Brozović joins the ranks as Europe’s top defensive midfielders and has arguably been Inter’s most consistent performer for years now.

Brozovic Main position is Defensive midfielder,but he can very well play as an Attacking Midfielder and a central midfielder. 


He has scored 20 goals over 221 matches he played, spanning from 2014-2021.


The Croatian is an important cog to Inter, as the linkage between defense and attack. More crucially, he plays a crucial role in the team’s build-up from deep. Brozović’s pass receptions heatmap signifies the Croat’s tendencies to drop deep to receive the ball.


He is a good passer as he boasts having a  97 percentile in the amount of passes which he has completed. It takes his pass completion percentage to a whopping 96 percentile, having a rank of 91% per 90

With Brozović on the ball, he’d look to switch the ball long to the flanks or attempt to break the lines, often finding his midfield partners higher up the pitch.


Marcelo Brozović is essentially Inter’s go to man in possession and is constantly seen running towards the ball, demanding it from his teammates at every opportunity. Times when he doesn’t get the ball would lead to constant moans and complaints, but a sign of a top mentality all midfielders should have. 

Kindly follow the link to read the whole content: 

 https://link.medium.com/uog4KAMwynb