NewsDrum Desk

In a logical universe, the TMC should certainly not be afraid of Saira Shah Halim. The former is the overwhelming majority, across all formats of state elections, while the latter is a poll debutant, representing an erstwhile force in reboot mode, the CPI (M). But then, politics is a strange territory of unpredictable momentum, with those in power terminally in fear of the imminent uncertainty.

It all begins with education and exposure, as Saira arrives with impeccable socio-professional credentials, and a track record of productive secular activism. Babul Supriyo, the TMC aspirant for the Ballygunge By-Elections (Kolkata), is an outsider with a rather un-parliamentary resume, effortlessly switching allegiances, like a playback singer does with screen heroes.

The constituency in question was represented by a regional political icon, Subrata Mukherjee, whose personal magnetism overshadowed party affiliations, and all of the above present a bustling cauldron of possibilities.

History bears witness to the power of the anecdote, a seemingly innocuous one-off event, which terminally influences the course of the prevailing narrative, gaining gale force-velocity in a narrow period of time. A lady called Rosa Parks being denied a bus seat led to the Civil Rights equilibrium in the USA, the assassination of Archduke Ferdinand drove us to the brink of the First World War, the Haymarket Affair in Chicago incubated the International Worker’s Day and the Bombay Naval Mutiny was inarguably a springboard for August 15, 1947. For every such universal instance, there are many local peers, which is why those riding the delirious narrative are constantly wary of the alluring anecdote, for which Saira Shah Halim is a likely candidate.

For starters, the deceased incumbent was a staunch local hero, orchestrating a significant Durga Puja and being immensely visible in the community. Saira too is a staunch local, a walk-the-talk advocate of meaningful integration, with proven contributions to the city.

Read the full story here :- https://www.newsdrum.in/analysis/bengal-bypolls-why-is-mamata-banerjee-afraid-of-saira-shah-halim-9326.html