David Bennett Sr, the man who received a genetically modified pig heart, in a landmark surgical transplant in a Maryland hospital last week has a violent criminal past. 34 years ago, he had repeatedly stabbed a 22-year-old man called Edward Shumaker, leaving him paralyzed for 19 years, until he died in 2007. He was convicted and sentenced to 10 years in prison in 1988.

The Washington Post spoke to his sister Leslie Shumaker Downey who said the modified heart should have gone to a more deserving patient. While the world considers Bennett a hero and a pioneer, she hates to call him so. According to her, the man who stabbed her brother seven times, turning him into a paraplegic, shouldn’t have gotten a second chance to live. The revelation has stoked a big debate whether the criminal record of a patient should count while providing them with experimental medical care. And if doctors and medical experts should set a new ethical guideline for choosing patients for cutting-edge procedures.

Over 106,000 Americans who deserve an organ transplant have to wait for years, and approximately 17 die every day never receiving the required organ. Organs are usually harvested from brain-dead people—victims of road accidents or homicides—whose organs remain in working condition. Genetically modified pig organs can surely solve the huge organ shortage, if the science of transplanting genetically modified animal organs is perfected.

Downey, or families that have suffered from violent crimes may feel that a convict should not get such a privilege. But ethical experts and healthcare providers don’t agree with the view. The University of Maryland Medical center which conducted the experimental procedure, said they chose Bennett based on his medical needs, not his background or circumstances. Besides, such xenotransplantation—implantation of an organ from another species— attempts are highly risky and never succeeded before. The hospital said in a statement: “This patient made the extraordinary decision to undergo this ground-breaking surgery to not only potentially extend his own life but also for the future benefit of others.”

READ MORE: https://www.washingtonpost.com/dc-md-va/2022/01/13/pig-heart-transplant-stabbing-david-bennett/

https://www.usnews.com/news/health-news/articles/2022-01-13/hospital-poor-health-only-criteria-for-pig-heart-transplant

https://www.nytimes.com/2022/01/13/health/pig-heart-transplant-bennett.html