Netflix’s ‘The Sandman’ is brilliant in its direction and execution. The show is a must watch for its dark, captivating, innovative content that is full of great acting, visually stunning, VFX, music and equal parts brilliant and sick in its depiction of human depravity.

Acting as a direct adaptation of the “Preludes & Nocturnes" and "The Doll's House" stories from author Neil Gaiman’s The Sandman graphic novel series and, outside of updating the time frame and introducing a few changes here and there, the series is nearly a page-for-page take on the stories ‘The Sandman’.

For those who have not read the graphic novel, or are completely unaware of the concept as a whole, fret not the show knows how to grab your attention. The Sandman focuses on Morpheus/Dream, the King of Dreams, and one of the Endless, an omnipotent anthropomorphic personification of dreams itself. After his imprisonment for a 100 years, his realm the Dreaming starts to crumble and fall into ruin, the barriers between the waking world and the dreaming world thin and some nightmares escape into the waking world.

After escaping his imprisonment, Dream seeks to undo the damage his captors have wrought onto the world by imprisoning him, and embarks on a quest of finding his tools and later repairing his realm and finding the missing nightmares. Throughout his journey, the show explores the transformation of Dream from a haughty, arrogant and largely self centered creature averse to the concept of change into a more noble, wiser and modest being who begins to open up to it, realising that even the King of Dreams with all his power cannot escape it.


Most noteworthy among all the brilliant performances is Tom Sturridge as Dream. The man as Morpheus is simply ethereal from his voice, diction, mannerisms, look to even his painfully thin build, the man is Dream himself. Other exceptional performances are Boyd Holbrook’s Corinthian, who is as charming and suave as he is depraved, Kirby Howell Baptiste’s kind and wise Death, Gwendoline Christie’s imposing and powerful Lucifer Morningstar and David Thewlis’s morbid and demented John Dee.



Score: 10/10