If heart failure while undergoing treatment for bad teeth hadn't claimed him in his early thirties, one of London's most famous residents might have turned 76 on 30 May.

Nobody knows when Guy the gorilla was actually born, but the authorities at London Zoo gave him an official birthday, and every year Regent's Park was deluged with birthday cards.

A western lowland gorilla (Gorilla gorilla gorilla) who was London Zoo's most famous resident and often profiled on children's TV shows and natural history productions. 

Guy arrived at the zoo on 5 November 1947, Guy Fawkes Night, hence his name. A baby, holding a small tin hot-water bottle, he weighed just 23 lb (10 kg). Guy was the replacement for the zoo's previous gorilla, Meng, who had died in 1941. Guy was captured in the French Cameroons on behalf of Paris Zoo and was traded for a tiger from Calcutta Zoo. It was arranged that London Zoo would receive Guy.

His appearance was fearsome, yet his nature was very gentle; when small birds flew into his cage, he was often seen to lift them on his hands and examine them softly. This gentleness is said to have been a major part of his great popularity.

During pre-production for the film 2001: A Space Odyssey (1968), Dan Richter — who played the lead ape-man ("Moonwatcher") in the film — studied Guy intently and modelled his acting and mime performance partly on Guy's behaviour.

English musician David Dundas released his album 'Vertical Hold ' in 1978, which featured a song devoted to "Guy The Gorilla".

In 1947, people were still suffering from the privations and associated rationing of wartime, even though the conflict had been over for more than two years. A zoo offered escapism from all this for the citizens of London and beyond, and it was important for zoo bosses to ensure there was always something new and exciting worth seeing there to entice people through the gates.

Guy rapidly became a star attraction - his celebrity as Britain's most famous animal eventually rivalled only by that of his close neighbour across the zoo, Chi-Chi the giant panda. 

There are few single animals that have played a greater role in helping to educate the public about natural history.