Naruto: If you want to watch anime, Naruto is the way to go. It will create a set of bars based on your anime interests. It's about a little boy whose parents perished while defending their village, and he has a nine-tailed monster imprisoned within him. Everyone resents him for the same reason, believing he is the host of monsters and thus the cause of the destruction that occurred years ago. He battles everyone, grows stronger, and becomes the unstoppable ninja, projecting the entire community.

You'll see him develop from a small boy to the village chief throughout the course of the series (hokage). You'll witness him marry and start a family (which also has another continued series- boruto- that is about his son).

Death Note : The plot revolves around Light Yagami, an adolescent genius who discovers a mysterious notebook known as the "Death Note," which once belonged to the Shinigami Ryuk and provides the user the superhuman ability to kill anybody whose name is written in its pages. The series follows Light's subsequent attempts, under the alias of a god-like vigilante named "Kira," to use the Death Note to carry out a worldwide massacre of individuals he deems immoral and to create a crime-free society, as well as the efforts of a Japanese police task force led by enigmatic detective L to apprehend him.

One Punch Man: Saitama is the protagonist of the anime One Punch Man. It's based on the same-named manga by an unidentified writer known only as ONE.
He can defeat everything with a single punch, as his name says. As a result, he never has enough worthy opponents to fight because they are all defeated by a single punch. In Japanese, his name (Wanpanman) is a pun on the character Anpanman.

Saitama ascended to such great power by... well, the secret is mundane; I'm not going to tell you what it is so you can figure it out for yourself. A mountain was shattered by the shockwave of his punch, which he flung drunkenly when Saitama was messing around.

These are some of my favourite anime tell me about yours .