By Samirddhi SakuniaYears ago, Sivakasi, a city in the Virudhunagar district of Tamil Nadu, used to bustle with activity around this time. The city used to meet about 90 percent of the firecracker requirements of India. Not anymore. The once bustling streets of Sivakasi look deserted these days. The workers of the firecracker industry have said that they have suffered huge losses, and Diwali production is yet to pick pace. Industry bodies have estimated that nearly three lakh workers directly employed in about 1000 firecracker manufacturing units are in a fix because of the firecrackers ban.https://theprobe.in/paid-news-concept-is-a-disease-that-is-prevailing-in-the-indian-media/?related_post_from=3905https://youtu.be/d-mCf-LgOakVikrant Tongad, Environment conservationist and founder of Social Action for Forest and Environment (SAFE), speaks on the ban on firecrackers and its socio-environmental impact Like Sanju, thousands of workers in Sivakasi are in dire situations. Hunger and poverty, coupled with the pandemic-infused economic strain, have significantly impacted the lives of the people in the city. The Supreme Court banned the use of barium in 2018 in the manufacturing of firecrackers. The ban was reaffirmed in 2021, following which the firecracker industry associations impleaded in the case seeking to lift the ban. In a balancing act, in 2018, the Supreme Court, while banning the use of barium, allowed the cracker industry to manufacture and sell green crackers and those with reduced emissions (improved crackers). Last year, the Delhi government imposed a complete ban on the storage, sale and use of firecrackers during Diwali because of the rising pollution levels in the national capital. On Monday, the Air Quality Index (AQI) level of Delhi was 193, which was put under the category of “unhealthy” scale. The AQI scale of “unhealthy”, according to the US-EPA 2016 standard, is explained as: “everyone may begin to experience health effects; members of sensitive groups may experience more serious health effects.”Read more: https://theprobe.in/sivakasi-workers-stare-at-black-diwali-as-environmentalists-push-for-complete-ban-on-all-forms-of-firecrackers/