Restaurants in key cities have stepped up their game as the nation prepares to commemorate decades of independence.
We can't think of a better way to spend the Fourth of July than with a meal at one of these restaurants, which include unusual menu items, intriguing themes, and the attitude of giving back.

1. The Bombay Canteen, Mumbai 
The Bombay Canteen has embraced the spirit of unity with a meal for a good cause in honour of those who keep the nation fed. The eight-year tradition, known as the "Independence Day Daawat," is currently the longest-running social project in the sector and a testimony to the restaurant's dedication to sustainability. Signature dishes from many states are included on the menu, like millet haleem from Hyderabad, moong dal kachori from Rajasthan, doon chatting from Kashmir, kokum sharbat from Maharashtra, and chaat from Delhi and Kolkata, amongst others.

To aid in soil health restoration, all donations are given to the farmers of Cheduputtu village in Araku, Andhra Pradesh. The lunch, which is sponsored by the Naandi Foundation, will be held on August 15 from 11:00 am to 4:00 pm.

2. SuzyQ, Bengaluru 
Suzy Q by 1522 is planning an all-day celebration of Indian cuisine with the theme "Freedom Jubilee." There are mouthwatering dishes like West Bengal's mangshor jhol, Punjab's pindi chole with kulchas, Gujarat's papad ki tikki, and more on the menu! This interesting cuisine, which is exclusive to this week, is perfect for families. Make bookings as soon as possible!

3. Dhansoo Cafe, Delhi-NCR
Flavors from all across the nation have been brought to this area of the capital by the spirit of freedom. Delicious vegetarian cutlets and tiranga pleasure are included in this. In addition, the chef Ashish Sign-curated menu offers treats like Shepherd's pie, a brief reference to India's colonial heritage. Come on over at any moment between now and August 15 to enjoy all of this and more.

So head on over to the Independence Day celebrations and celebrate Mother India!