Today's newspaper; Front page headline: "Rahul Gandhi summoned for fourth consecutive day in the National Herald Case". 
Well, the news captivated me because why not, after all, it had Rahul Gandhi mentioned in it. For those who don't know what the case is about, embrace yourself because it's story time (I like romanticising news stories, anyway). So to put it simply: Our protagonist, National Herald was a newspaper, launched by the Associated Journal Act in 1938, which was the brainchild of Pt. J.L. Nehru. Had many shareholders, a good readership and a decent prestige, all that a newspaper wants. Fast forward to 2008, the newspaper got shut down, because ALJ was in a debt by Congress itself, ironic much, I know! Skip to 2010, Young India Limited, a new company comes into the picture, owned by the mother-son duo (you know who I am talking about) with 78% shares and the rest with Oscar Fernandez and Motilal Vohra who no longer exist in the picture (alas). ALJ, our damsel in distress, was saved by YIL, our knight in shining armour, well not practically but all the holding of the former were transferred to the latter. All good in the story? Too bad for you because here comes the worse nail-biting twist in the story. Subramanian Swamy, BJP leader and an advocate could not see the growing romance between ALJ and YIL and moved to your owner (I mean the Delhi Court duh) alleging money laundering against Sonia Gandhi and Rahul Gandhi. So apparently YIL only paid 50 Lakh after acquiring ALJ which had a debt of around 90 crores but acquired assets worth 800 crore, in a 'malicious' manner, according to Swamy. Another intriguing allegation was that the loan given to ALJ was by party funds. The petition was filed, people were called, first in 2012, then 2013, then 2015, and eventually bail was granted to the mother and son duo (you can't expect anything else, it's our country's system we are talking about oops). But with our Modiji in power, picture abhi baki hai mere dost kyuki bhrastachar to hatega, by hook or by crook!