Chandigarh-based photojournalist Pankaj Sharma had captured fugitive underworld Don Dawood Ibrahim to Bandit Queen-turned-Politician Phoolan Devi to India's 14th Prime Minister Narendra Modi through the lens.

"These are some of the rare moments for me to cherish," says freelance photojournalist Pankaj Sharma, 58, who is a graduate in Applied Arts from Delhi College of Arts and joined the media profession in 1987. 

"Since my college days I had a fascination to meet personalities from across the verticals, so, I found a news photography as the best medium. This became my driving force behind joining the profession," adds Sharma. 

Dawood with Bollywood stars

"Sharjah Cup in 1988 was my first international assignment. I covered it for PTI. Dawood Ibrahim was a regular feature at the VIP stands there. Raj Kapoor, Rajesh Khanna, Jay Pradha along with other film personalities were there with the underworld Don," recalls Sharma. "It was the time before the Mumbai serial blasts, so, he was seen as a smuggler or Indian Don by the local photojournalist covering  the Sharjah cup."

Cover Shot 

"Phoolan Devi had just released after spending around 11 years in the jail. I went to shoot her for a cover story for a Bombay, now Mumbai, based publication. I had a perception that being charged for mutliple murders & dacoity, she must be rude or tough to talk. But she turned out to be very humble," recalls Sharma, who joined The Tribune in Chandigarh in 1997 and later moved to Dubai with Gulf News in 2005.

One minute to shoot Modi 

A week before Modi's Dubai visit in 2015, Sharma along with Gulf News' editor flew to Delhi to interview the Indian Prime Minister. 

"When we went to 7 Race Course for the scheduled interview, the SPG didn't allow me to enter the PM residence. After insistence and getting clearance from PMO, I was allowed to enter but with a rider that I would get just one minute to shoot," says Sharma. "Thankfully I get the desired shot in 60 seconds."

"A picture is worth a 1000 words, so everytime I try to look for a frame that tells the entire story."