After causing much uproar around the world over the past week, POTUS Joe Biden himself confirmed on Monday that Russia has used hypersonic missiles in its invasion of Ukraine.

"And if you'll notice, (Russia has) just launched the hypersonic missile, because it's the only thing that they can get through with absolute certainty," Biden said. "It's a consequential weapon ... it's almost impossible to stop it. There's a reason they're using it, he said during a business roundtable at the White House.

Russia claims to have used its Kinzhal (dagger) hypersonic missile at, among other targets, a weapons depot in western Ukraine – making it the first country to ever test this category of the missile in combat.

Let's find out the significance of these weapons in the Ukrainian war zone:

What exactly are these hypersonic missiles/ weapons?

The term “hypersonic” speed means anything that moves at five times the speed of sound or Mach 5 or beyond that - Hypersonic speed is often referred to as one of the key factors—if not the key factor—that set ‘hypersonic’ missiles apart from other missiles. Some hypersonic missiles can even travel up to Mach 20.

However, most ballistic missiles already move this fast or even more than that so, what makes hypersonic missiles different is that they glide in the upper atmosphere and are highly manoeuvrable, where ballistic missiles, once launched, have very limited possibilities to alter their course and always follow a set trajectory.

Hypersonic weapons are mainly categorised into two variants:

> Hypersonic glide vehicles: They are propelled to great speed by rockets just like ballistic missiles, but rather than arching high above the atmosphere, it glides, re-enters the atmosphere shortly after the launch.

They rely on an aerodynamic lift to stay aloft potentially for >1000 miles without the use of an engine ( the basic idea is the same as that of a hang glider)

>Hypersonic cruise missiles: They are powered throughout their flight. To keep flying at such great speeds over long distances they need scramjet engines. The speed of missiles itself forces the air to the engine which combusts into supersonic speeds.

(To be continued)