Eintracht Frankfurt and Leverkusen will be up against each other on Matchday 10 of the Bundesliga 2022-23. Frankfurt are at the 8th position in the Bundesliga points table while Leverkusen sit at the 15th position in the points table.
Eintracht Frankfurt have played a total of 9 games this season in the Bundesliga. In these 9 games, they have won four games, have drawn two games, and have been on the losing end 3 times. In the process, they have scored 16 goals and conceded 16 goals so far.
Leverkusen, on the other hand, have also played 9 games in the Bundesliga this season. In these 9 games, they have won two games, have drawn two games and have been on the losing end on five occasions. In the process, they have scored 13 goals and conceded 16 goals.
Eintracht Frankfurt vs Leverkusen Match Details
Match: Eintracht Frankfurt vs Leverkusen
Date and Time: 15th October, 03:30 pm UK, 03:30 pm Local, 07:00 pm IST
Venue: Deutsche Bank Park
Eintracht Frankfurt vs Leverkusen Probable Playing XI
Eintracht Frankfurt: Kevin Trapp; Evan Ndicka, Makoto Hasebe, Tuta; Christopher Lenz, Djibril Sow, Sebastian Rode, Ansgar Knauff; Daichi Kamada, Kolo Muani, Jesper Lindstrom
Leverkusen: Lukas Hradecky; Jeremie Frimpong, Jonathan Tah, Edmond Tapsoba, Mitchel Bakker; Robert Andrich, Kerem Demirbay; Moussa Diaby, Adam Hlozek, Callum Hudson-Odoi; Patrick Schick
Eintracht Frankfurt vs Leverkusen Probable Winners
Eintracht Frankfurt have been one of the better sites in Bundesliga this season and Leverkusen have been exactly opposite in terms of performances produced. With Frankfurt playing this game with the home advantage, we expect them to cruise to a win.
Prediction: Eintracht Frankfurt 2-0 Leverkusen
Eintracht Frankfurt vs Leverkusen Live Stream
Eintracht Frankfurt vs Leverkusen will be televised on the Sony Sports Network in India. Indian Fans can live-stream the match on the Sony LIV app. In Germany, fans can tune in to DAZN and SKY Sports for the live telecast and live streaming of Bundesliga matches.