
How has the ban affected different segments of this industry?
Even though the major industries had ample time before the implementation of the ban to alternate their production and packaging according to these guidelines, it turned out to be quite impractical in some ways. 
For example, now, plastic straws attached to liquid containers have been replaced with paper straws by most of the major players in the industry. However, the paper straws are covered in plastic wrappers as there is no restriction on that, which defies the purpose of the ban altogether. Another example of the elimination of plastic cutlery with popular instant food items like instant noodles, instant poha, instant upma etc., without provision of alternatives like wooden cutlery makes consumption. Such industries have also benefitted from lower packaging costs.
As far as the unorganized sector is concerned, they did not take the ban well either. The economy took a major hit in the pandemic and is further worsened by inflation. In this condition, the cost of acquiring biodegradable alternatives to the listed items adversely affects small business owners and their customers. The lack of sturdy, affordable and practical alternatives to banned items further adds to their problems. 
How well did the government plan and implement the ban?
Poor planning and implementation have affected the most vulnerable segment of the industry, while the major industries found a loophole and got away with similar or even cheaper packaging. Nor are the consumers very satisfied with this change. In some cases, they even pay extra for the items they got cheaper earlier. Before implementing the ban, the SUP items that had already been produced and are still in distribution should have been acquired by the government for better implementation.
Perspective on future plans?
On 30 September, carry bags with thickness below 75 microns have also been banned, and the minimum thickness will further be increased to 120 microns on 31 December this year. 