A 5000-year-old ancient drum, discovered in a prehistoric children’s burial site is the “most important piece of historic art to be found in the last 100 years,” according to the British Museum in London.

The drum, which is actually a chalk sculpture, was carved out in the era of Stonehenge – one of the most famous prehistoric monuments at Wiltshire, England – discovered six years ago in an estate in the village of Burton Agnes in Yorkshire, England. It’s named Burton Agnes drum after the village.

During the excavation, archaeologists with Allen Archaeology, an independent company, discovered the ancient burial site. Inside the prehistoric grave they found intertwined bones of three children. The drum was found above the head of the eldest child, alongside a polished bone pin and a chalk ball. It was not used as a musical instrument, but a specimen of sculpture or a children’s toy, say archaeologists. 

The British Museum finds the drum a significant discovery because it is “one of the most elaborately decorated objects of this period found anywhere in Britain and England.” Kept out of public glare, the sculpture is now being exhibited in The World of Stonehenge, an exhibition at the museum. According to Neil Wilkin, a curator of Early Europe at the museum, spirals and triangles, carved in the drum, are an intricate butterfly motif.  The carvings are artistically similar to those seen in objects discovered at neolithic sites of Scotland and Ireland indicating that these ancient communities communicated with each other. 

The archaeological find comes more than a century after the discovery of Folkton drums—similar chalk drums found in the village of Folkton, 15 miles away from Burton Agnes, in 1889.

READ MORE:
https://phys.org/news/2022-02-prehistoric-ancient-british-museum.html

https://www.cnn.com/style/article/drum-discovery-stone-age-archaeology-grave-scn-scli-intl/index.html

https://www.smithsonianmag.com/smart-news/an-ornate-5000-year-old-stone-drum-is-the-uks-most-significant-prehistoric-art-find-in-a-century-180979604/