Nearly two months have passed since the Supreme Court of the United States returned its judgment in Dobbs v. Jackson Women’s Health Organization — the now infamous decision that reversed half a century of established law on a woman’s right to abortion.
The majority opinion in Dobbs is rife with contradictions and questionable legal reasoning. The material harm that many women will suffer as a consequence is undeniable.
But from a constitutional perspective, the theory the court used to arrive at its judgment poses the gravest danger.
Originalism vs living constitutionalism
Constitutional scholars have long been charting the Supreme Court’s transition away from a living reading of the U.S. Constitution toward an originalist one.
Those who subscribe to an originalist reading of the Constitution believe that courts act illegitimately wherever they try to creatively apply its provisions to modern times. Since it would be undemocratic for an unelected judiciary to “invent” the law, courts must limit themselves to the retrieval of constitutional principles from the text of the Constitution itself.
Living constitution theorists defend the opposite perspective. Since much of the U.S. Constitution was written more than 200 years ago, they argue that binding the current generation to the intentions of its drafters not only undermines the sovereignty of the people living today but impedes any progress the nation has made throughout its history.
It’s along these fault lines that the majority and dissenting opinions in Dobbs took shape.
According to the majority of Supreme Court justices, “constitutional analysis must begin with ‘the language of the instrument,’ which offers a ‘fixed standard’ for ascertaining what our founding document means.” And because “the Constitution makes no reference to abortion,” they argued, any claim that the document confers a right to it must be rejected.
The dissenting justices took the opposite tack. They acknowledged that “those responsible for the original Constitution… did not perceive women as equals, and [therefore] did not recognize women’s rights” 
Read more: https://theconversation.com/the-u-s-supreme-court-failed-to-uphold-american-ideals-of-liberty-and-equality-in-abortion-ruling-188491
