North Korea's latest launch was a huge, new intercontinental ballistic missile (ICBM), state media reported on Friday, in a test leader Kim Jong Un said was designed to demonstrate the might of its nuclear force and deter any U.S. military moves.

It was the first full ICBM test by nuclear-armed North Korea since 2017, and flight data indicated the missile flew higher and longer than any of North Korea's previous tests, before crashing into the sea west of Japan, Reuters reported.

Dubbed the Hwasong-17, the ICBM is the largest liquid-fuelled missile ever launched by any country from a road-mobile launcher, analysts said.

Kim ordered the test because of the "daily-escalating military tension in and around the Korean peninsula" and the "inevitability of the long-standing confrontation with the U.S. imperialists accompanied by the danger of a nuclear war," state news agency KCNA reported.

"The strategic forces of the DPRK are fully ready to thoroughly curb and contain any dangerous military attempts of the U.S. imperialists," Kim said while personally overseeing the launch, according to KCNA. DPRK are the initials of North Korea's official name.

North Korea's return to major weapons tests capable of potentially striking the United States poses a direct challenge to U.S. President Joe Biden as he responds to Russia's invasion of Ukraine. And it raises the prospect of a new crisis following the election of a new, conservative South Korean administration that has pledged a more muscular military strategy to counter Pyongyang.

South Korea's President-elect Yoon Suk-yeol, who will speak to Chinese President Xi Jinping later on Friday, said North Korea had nothing to gain from provocation. China is North Korea's sole major ally and neighbour.

The launch drew condemnation from leaders in the United States, Japan, and South Korea.

Kim said the test would help convince the world of the modern features of the country's strategic forces.

https://www.reuters.com/world/asia-pacific/nkorea-says-thursday-launch-was-new-type-icbm-hwasong-17-state-media-2022-03-24/?taid=623d179c9443840001c8655a&utm_campaign=trueAnthem:+Trending+Content&utm_medium=trueAnthem&utm_source=twitter