For the first time in his career, LeBron James has been linked to a possible trade in the offseason. The rumored rift between the Los Angeles Lakers' front office and James' representative Klutch Sports has made the upcoming summer very interesting for both parties.

According to Colin Cowherd of Fox Sports, the Lakers should not be afraid to trade LeBron this offseason. Cowherd noted that the Lakers have history and will always get the next superstar. Although Cowherd prefers the Lakers to keep James and trade Anthony Davis, he understands that LeBron is getting older.

"He’s missed 75 games in the last four years. He’s missed a season in the last four seasons and he’s getting older. He doesn’t give you 44 minutes a night and he’s not nearly as dominant on the defensive end," Cowherd said.

"I would prefer the Lakers keep LeBron, trade AD, and blow it up this offseason, but so what if you had to trade him? LA has a history, we just get the next guy. Kareem, Wilt, Shaq, LeBron. It's what the city does," Cowherd added.

The Los Angeles Lakers are one of the most historic and decorated teams in NBA history. The Lakers have had at least one superstar in each decade of their existence. They had George Mikan in their first dynasty back in Minneapolis in the 1950s.

Elgin Baylor and Jerry West were the superstars of the 1960s, with Wilt Chamberlain joining in the latter part of the decade. They then acquired Kareem Abdul-Jabbar in 1975 before Magic Johnson and James Worthy were brought in the 1980s to form the "Showtime" Lakers.

The Lakers hit a bit off dry spell in the 1990s until they signed Shaquille O'Neal and drafted Kobe Bryant in 1996. Shaq and Kobe dominated the early 2000s before Bryant put the team on his back for the remainder of his career.

Finally, LeBron James was the next superstar to arrive in Hollywood. He signed with the Lakers in 2018 and brought a championship in 2020. James' current deal with the Lakers expires at the end of the 2022-23 NBA season.

What do you think??