A very important component of Hinduism, the origins of which may be traced back to the ancient Vedas, is the caste system, which divides individuals based on varna or vocation. The caste system is a scourge in Indian society. It separates Indian society into sectarian and socioeconomic factions. Despite the advancement of culture and civilisation, it plays a major role in contemporary society. For generations, caste has ruled practically every element of religious and social life of the Hindu religion, with each group maintaining a distinct position in this complicated structure. Hindus are classified into four groups based on their caste: Brahmins, Kshatriyas, Vaishyas, and Shudras. Many people think the tribes descended from Brahma, the Hindu God of Creation. The Brahmins, who were mostly teachers and thinkers and have descended from Brahma's head, were at the apex of the hierarchy. Then, purportedly from his arms, arose the Kshatriyas, or warriors and kings. The Vaishyas, or merchants created from his thighs, took the third spot. The Shudras, who descended from Brahma's foot and performed all menial tasks, were at the bottom of the stack. The primary castes were further subdivided into around 3,000 castes and 25,000 sub-castes, depending on employment.   

According to social identity theory, individuals get a significant part of their identity from an assertion of membership in the group they belong to. A strong caste identity may create sentiments of belonging or self-esteem, dependent on certain caste rules. It is well known that high caste persons regard caste identity as a more solid construct inherited from birth. Individuals belonging to lower caste groups, or Dalits, on the other hand, do not feel that their caste identity is inherited and so do not essentialise it. Low caste people do not have a strong caste identity as they feel that belonging to this group has adverse implications. Even now, individuals in India decide their self-identity based on the caste and social group they belong to. As a result, caste membership is profoundly established in society, and there is reason to suppose that caste is one of the most prominent identities in the Indian context.