From living their dreams to seeing them shatter before their very eyes, the Kopites have had a season like no other. Some fans are still hungover from the events of the final day, while others have made the journey to Paris; in hopes of a happy ending. But if Liverpool suffers another heartbreak on Saturday, will this campaign be considered a failure? 

On paper, Liverpool has had one of its most remarkable campaigns, known to many. The club from Merseyside has already bagged the FA Cup and the Carabao cup. In the PL, the Reds finished with 92 points, just one point behind champions; City. Before the arrival of Pep and Klopp, 92 points would've won any team the title. It also showcases the competitiveness and improvement which has made Premier League the "Gold Standard" in football.

So coming back to the question, Liverpool's season will go from remarkable to average if they fail to win the UCL. And the small margin that denied them the PL  would start to seem gigantic. It is a well-known fact that history only remembers the winners. So all this talk about 21/22 being one of their greatest seasons could turn into smoke if they do not have any "Major League Titles" to showcase in the cabinet. Hence the pressure is on Liverpool to deliver on the final day. Statistically, Jurgen Klopp has had a better season as compared to Guardiola. The German has won more and lost fewer matches than his compatriot. The German also leads the race in terms of trophies and accolades. The Liverpool boss has also been named the PL "Manager of the Year. " Irrespective of all the success of this season, Liverpool know that they cannot afford to slip up on Saturday.

On the contrary, if Liverpool conquers Paris, the 21/22 season will be immortal in the clubs' history. The songs and tales of this season will live on and inspire the coming generations to strive for greatness. The outcome of Saturday will also be significant in the race for the coveted Balon'd Or, as UCL plays a crucial role in deciding the ultimate winner.