Ok, I was just listening to some Alice In Chains on YouTube, and after scrolling down the comment section a bit, I felt like  I had to come down here and write a piece of my mind before I beat up someone. 

For those calling AIC the pioneer of grunge. Yes they are heavy, dark, downtuned, bluesy, gloomy, negative . But grunge? Seriously?

 OK to start with what is this “grunge”? In simple terms, it is guitar driven rock with an unrefined dirty sound, simple structures, fusing elements of hardcore punk and metal with various other styles, such as blues, hard rock, rock’n roll, indie rock etc. 

Grunge was supposed to be identified with its rejection of the mainstream and angst filled dark lyrics in contrast to the lighter sound of 80s pop metal. 

But any band characterized into a particular genre must have something similar with its other counterparts, for example, Rush and Pink Floyd are both progressive rock. Both radically different, yet part of the same genre, why?

 Because even though Rush was borderline heavy metal and Pink Floyd barely had any hard edged songs, they both had musical complexity, odd composition structures etc. 

So for those who have listened to “grunge”, how do Soundgarden, Nirvana, Alice In Chains, Pearl Jam etc have any other similarities besides being from Seattle?

 Soundgarden, AIC, TAD and Melvins were basically full on metal bands, Nirvana was punk, Stone Temple Pilots and Candlebox were hard rock and Pearl Jam plain old 60s inspired rock. So how can they be called grunge with next to no sonic similarities? Some of these bands did not even have simplistic song structures or dirty guitar sounds.

 Grunge was no movement, no subculture and certainly not a genre. It was a label created by the media to bring together a bunch of dissimilar bands from Seattle  to pit against the dying scene of glam metal, but they caused more damage than they thought because this label birthed the monstrosity of pretentious emo butt rock bands who have tried to casually murder hard rock, and to a level have succeeded. So yeah, grunge is not a thing.