Researchers discovered that eating 400 grams of fruits and vegetables each day could help prevent chronic illnesses like cancer, heart disease, stroke, and dementia. They translated that into five servings a day, which became the predominant public health message for decades.
What Happens to Your Body When You Eat Enough Fruits & Vegetables ?
While half of your plate might not seem that ambitious, most people are not getting enough produce in a typical day. But there can be some serious benefits to upping your intake. Here's what the science says you can expect if you hit the magic number of around five servings per day.
1 You may have a lower risk of heart disease  ; 
"The strongest evidence for the benefits of fruits and vegetables is regarding the prevention of cardiovascular disease," says Wallace. Produce is so helpful that an International Journal of Epidemiology study found that people who ate about six servings (or 18 ounces) of fruits and veggies a day were 16% less likely to die from coronary heart disease than people who ate less than 1½ ounces daily. 
2 You may have a reduced stroke risk ; 
The World Health Organization estimates that feasting on 7½ servings of produce a day might reduce the risk of stroke by anywhere from 10% to 19%. This is in part thanks to potassium. Produce provides more of this blood pressure-lowering mineral than any other food group. And high blood pressure is a leading risk factor for stroke. 
3 Your brain health might improve ; 
Whether your goal is emotional well-being now or warding off dementia later, colorful produce can be a helpful ally. A 2020 Nutrients systematic review concluded that consuming five or more daily servings is linked to better mental health, particularly less depression. While any produce was a win, citrus, bananas, berries, apples, kiwis, cucumbers, carrots, lettuce, tomatoes and leafy greens like spinach provided the best brain-supporting benefits. 
Read more - https://www.eatingwell.com/article/8004966/what-happens-to-your-body-when-you-eat-enough-fruits-vegetables/ 