‌Durbin further asked Jackson about how she ended up representing people who were detained at the Guantanamo Bay detention camp in the wake of the 9/11 attacks.
‌
‌Jackson said at the very beginning, "most of the factual information was classified," so she said "defense counsel were appointed to represent these defendant [and] we had no facts."
‌
Jackson said she was working in the federal public defender's office after the Supreme Court decided that people who were imprisoned at the detention camp by the president could seek a review of why they were imprisoned there.

"Those cases started coming in and federal public defenders don't get to pick their clients. They have to represent whoever comes in and it's a service," Jackson said.

Jackson said she represented some of those detainees and worked on habeas petitions for them. She said her petitions were "virtually identical because we had very little information."

‌When Sen. Chuck Grassley asked Judge Jackson whether she believe in the idea of living constitution she said she doesn't in the sense that it is changing or infused with my own perspective or the policy perspective of the day. As the answers to her questions she said First Amendment free-speech protections apply equally to conservative and liberal protesters. 

She also said that the supreme court has established that the individual right to keep and bear arms is a fundamental right, when asked about gun laws. She also said she had to consider the opinion of other judges before taking a stand on installing cameras on courts.

Her answers seemed very diplomatic rather than fierce, may be due to her previous experience on the hearings. Moreover she said she favors the goal of diversity in schools and society, after describing her parents' experience attending segregated schools.

SOURCES: https://www.wsj.com/livecoverage/supreme-court-confirmation-hearings-ketanji-brown-jackson-2022-03-22 

https://www.google.com/amp/s/www.nbcnews.com/news/amp/live-blog/rcna20973