You may have heard of transphobia, which is defined as prejudice against transgender people and negative views toward them based on their gender expression. You've probably heard of misogyny, which is the hatred and denigration of women and feminine characteristics. Transmisogyny is the intertwined discrimination of misogyny and transphobia, especially as it affects trans women and transfeminine people. Some academics and activists have broadened the term to include all intersections of sexism and cissexism. It refers to misogyny and sexism experienced by trans women and transfeminine individuals that are not shared by cis women, as well as characteristics of transphobia and cissexism that are not shared by trans men and transmasculine people. Julia Serano, a trans activist and writer, invented the term 'transmisogyny', also written trans-misogyny or trans misogyny, in the 2000s. She outlined key principles to investigate trans women's persecution in popular culture, activism, and academics. Trans and gender non-conforming people who don't identify as women but have feminine traits and/or identify with the feminine end of the gender spectrum are also victims of transmisogyny. But if trans women are women, then why do we need another term to describe the misogyny they face? Because of their unique position of overlapping oppressions – them being both trans and feminine – trans women face a special sort of sexist marginalization. On both counts, they are undervalued in society. Not only is transmisogyny rife with sexism, but the oppression it produces is eerily similar to that which cisgender women face: physical objectification, hypersexualization, stereotyping, body policing, discrimination at all levels of society, and individual and systemic acts of violence. Hate crimes against trans persons are disproportionately and tragically high, with trans women bearing the brunt of the violence. In fact, transgender women were the victims of more than half of all anti-LGBTQIA+ homicides. While we're on the subject of statistics, it's worth noting that roughly three-quarters of those homicides were committed against people of color. As women, who've experienced enough oppression first-hand to understand how it works, It's critical that we work together to solve the problem of transmisogyny in our movements.