Multiple Assassin’s Creed trailers were announced during the Ubisoft Forward 2022, showcasing the plethora of ideas that the game developer has for the much acclaimed franchise.
 Finally headed to feudal Japan, Assassin's Creed Codename Red announcement was made during the Ubisoft Forward, promising to take gamers on an immersive ride of the feudal era of Japan, showing its culture and setting in detail.  Red will be the next major game in the series, releasing after the newly announced ‘Assassin’s Creed: Mirage’ releasing in 2023 set in ancient Baghdad.
 Developer Marc-Alexis Cote, who has served as both creative director and producer on some of the best Assassin's Creed games, described Codename Red as Ubisoft's "next premium flagship title" before teasing that it will be "the future of our open-world RPG games on Assassin's Creed." 
 The trailer confirms the return of the Animus with the narrative split between the past and the present with an all new type of Assassin who is shown wielding a one-handed sword, hidden blade, and donning jet-black Assassin Order robes. The game is already drawing comparisons to 2020's smash hit 'Ghosts of Tsushima'.
 For their next title, it seems that Assassin’s Creed may be going down the horror route as the recently unveiled teaser for the upcoming Assassin’s Creed project named ‘Assassin’s Creed: Hexe’ is giving off some serious ‘Blair Witch Project’ and ‘The Exorcist’ vibes. Details for the game have been vague though it is clear that 'Hexe' aims to go on a far darker path than previous AC installations.
 The trailer for the game shows the iconic Assassin’ order  insignia made up of sticks hanging from a tree in a spooky dark forest. No official time period or setting has been given, though according to reports the game takes place in the latter phases Europe during the Holy Roman Empire with witch hunts being a prominent feature.
 
Both games will be a part of Assassin’s Creed Codename INFINITY, a hub that will “connect players through different types of Assassin’s Creed experiences, old and new.” INFINITY will also bring multiplayer back to Assassin’s Creed via a standalone experience.
 