"Another thrilling season to look forward to"

It was a fairytale start for Liverpool's marquee acquisition, Darwin Nunez. The former Benfica man fired Klopp and Liverpool to their first silverware for the 22\23 season. The triumph over City sees Klopp achieve another milestone in his illustrious career. The German becomes one of the few managers to win all the major honors in England with Liverpool. 

The Uruguayan prodigy who rejected United to join Liverpool in a blockbuster £85m move from Benfica was outstanding since his introduction in the second half. Blessed with pace and clever movement, the Urugyuan was a constant menace to the City backline. The former Benfica man adjusted to his new surroundings to perfection. Nunez led the Liverpool press and hurried the City backline into making trivial errors. On another day, Darwin Nunez could've easily scored a hattrick. The Uruguayan was denied twice, firstly by the offside flag and secondly by Dias's hands - which also led to a penalty and Liverpool's second. The mega-money move from Benfica doesn't seem to faze the Urugyuan, as he slotted Liverpool's third and announced himself with a celebration to match. 

Whereas for defending champions Manchester City, it is still early days to predict their future. But having played without a recognized striker for the entirety of two seasons did take a toll in today's clash. Their new superstar Haaland looked lost in the City setup. Guardiola and his boys found it difficult to adjust to playing with an out-and-out striker. And it was evident when Haaland, on multiple occasions, made the run behind Liverpool's defense, only to be left frustrated. The City attacking players were slow in spotting Haaland's run and were not on the same page for the entirety of the match. It will be interesting to see how Pep nurtures Haaland into the team. 

Another exciting City acquisition who stole the limelight from Haaland was Julian Alvarez. The Argentine is loved and earmarked by many to be the next big star from Argentina, given his performances for River Plate. Julian scored the equalizer for City and looked promising in his first major outing.