On the eve of the year 2019’s edition of the Tuffman Shimla Ultra and Half Marathon Mashobra run, Sanjay Mangla, founder of Tuffman, was facing the biggest challenge of his life.  

On one hand, Mangla lost his father Hukam Chand Aggarwal, 89, on the evening of June 7, 2019. He had come to Shimla to enjoy the weather and witness the race. Unfortunately, he passed away due to a heart attack a day before the race.  

A doctor among the ultra-runners, Dr KS Anand even gave CPR (cardiopulmonary resuscitation), and for almost 30 minutes he repeatedly gave mouth to mouth respiration, but the efforts couldn't save the life.  

Being a son, Mangla had a responsibility to fulfill – to perform the last rites.  

On the other hand, Mangla had a professional commitment to fulfill. The runners from across the country had reached Shimla (Mashobra) and calling off the race at the 11th hour was not feasible. 

“For about two minutes, I was completely blanked. Being a son, I had a responsibility to fulfill and also had to keep my professional commitments. I have been raised with the values that come what may, one has to keep the commitment,” recalls Mangla with a choked voice. “We decided that my wife Nisha and I would take my father’s body to our home in Panchkula for the last rites & my team, including both my kids Jai & Menakshi, would conduct the race. I told them that it’s a testing time for all of us.” “I requested Dr Anand, who was there to participate in the 80km ultra run, to become the race director in my absence. Few of the runners also chose to skip their run and came forward to volunteer for the race. I am thankful to everyone for extending their support at the toughest time of my life,” he adds. 

On the next day – June 8, Mangla performed the last rites of his father in Panchkula. And 120km away in Mashobra, his team organised the run successfully.  

“Organsing the event was the biggest tribute I could give to my father,” says Mangla. “My father always used to tell me that ‘the show must go on’.” 