There’s a lot to love about Australia, especially Sydney. This beautiful city has so much to offer, from its world-famous harbor to the stunning natural scenery of the Blue Mountains, to its thriving arts, culture, and nightlife scenes. It’s no wonder that Sydney is one of the most sought-after places to live in the world.

1. The Magic Of Vivid Sydney

One of the most spectacular annual events in Sydney is Vivid Sydney, a festival of lights. Held from May to June, the Sydney Opera House and the Sydney Harbour Bridge are turned into light art for visitors and “Sydneysiders” - a nickname for Sydney locals - to enjoy. The festival also includes illuminated koala bears attached to tree trunks, stepping stones that light up, and more.

2. Sydney Has More Than 100 Beaches

When it comes to the best beaches around Sydney, it’s hard to know where to begin. Choose from over 100 beaches around the city to enjoy adventurous water sports including surfing, diving, kayaking, stand-up paddle boarding, and jet-boat rides!

3. One Of The Tallest Steel Arch Bridges In The World

The Sydney Harbour Bridge is one of the longest steel arch bridges in the world, spanning about 1650 feet, which is especially impressive considering it was built in the 1930s. Today, the bridge carries eight traffic lanes, rail tracks, a pedestrian walkway, a bicycle path, and a set of stairs to the center of the arch.

4. Sydney Is A Multicultural Hub

Sydney is one of the most global cities in the world. Over one-third of its population was born overseas and around half of Sydney’s citizens are first and second-generation immigrants. For example, in Parramatta - a city that belongs to the Greater Sydney area - 50 percent of its population speaks a language other than English.

5. World-Famous Sydney Opera House

The Sydney Opera House is one of the most well-known buildings in the world. The building was completed in 1973, after sixteen years of construction, at a cost of over $100 million dollars! This iconic landmark is one of the world’s premier performing arts venues and it defines the Sydney skyline.