By Ajay Thakur

It’s not even been a month since the results of the Goa Assembly Elections have been announced and Indian National Congress lost to the incumbent BJP for the third time – the sceptre of defections has returned to haunt the grand old party. 

On a day when the State’s ruling BJP was celebrating Sthapna Divas (Foundation Day) – grapevines worked overtime to report that BJP-turned-Congress Chief Minister of yore, Margao MLA Digambar Kamat was “likely to quit the Congress and join the BJP”. 

Kamat was quick to refute the speculation saying that he was out of town on a wedding. AICC General Secretary in-charge for Goa Dinesh Gundu Rao too confirmed with NewsDrum.in that Kamat had denied such plans.

But then the former Congress Chief Minister of Goa Digambar Vasantrao Kamat is no stranger to such controversies. In March 2019, when former Chief Minister Manohar Parrikar was fighting for his life and a grim BJP was looking for his successor, Kamat’s name started doing rounds. Kamat quickly denied saying he was heading out of town on a purely personal business trip. Even in the previous year (September 2018), the news went out that Kamat and four MLAs are quitting Congress.

Though the truth is still out there, the "Digambar Kamat quitting Congress; returning to BJP" saga isn’t new. In 1994, when Kamat left BJP to join Congress, he triggered the collapse of a Manohar Parrikar led BJP Government in Goa. The saffron party hasn’t forgotten nor forgiven Kamat since then. 

Between 2007 and 2012, when Kamat was the CM, Goa’s rumour mills went on overdrive at regular intervals in a monthly cycle speculating how a vengeful BJP/Parrikar is going to bring down Kamat’s Govt. Since 2012, when Congress was decimated in Goa Assembly, every time an MLA resigned from Congress or defected en masse, ‘Kamat next’ would be floating in the grapevine.

Read the full story here:- https://www.newsdrum.in/analysis/goa-politics-the-truth-behind-digambar-kamats-bjp-ghar-waapsi-story-11797.html