Parsi cuisine is as diverse as the culture itself, with a wide range of foods. Following their migration from Persia, the community settled on Gujarat's shore. Iranian cuisine is reflected in the custom of consuming stew, meats, dry fruits, and nuts. After moving on the coast, they began eating fish, and subsequently, with the influence of the British in colonial India, they began eating snacks and desserts.
A Parsi, often spelled Parsee, is a member of a group of Persian prophet Zoroaster's followers in India. The Parsis, whose name means "Persians," are descended from Persian Zoroastrians who fled to India to escape Muslim persecution. They primarily reside in Mumbai and a few towns and villages to the south of the city, although there are also a few minorities in Karachi (Pakistan) and Chennai. In both Pune and Bangalore, there is a sizable Parsee population. In Kolkata and Hyderabad, there are a few Parsee families. Although they are not a caste in the strictest sense, they do form a distinct group because they are not Hindus. The Parsi migration's exact date is uncertain.
Restaurants in Mumbai were mostly Udupi cafés selling dosas and idlis prior to the entrance of Chinese and then Italian cuisines, while Iranian cafés were known for economical non-vegetarian fare. Mawa cake, bun maska, and Irani chai are just a few of the well-known goods of these cafés. You can't say you've visited Delhi without trying paratha or chhole bhature, and you can't say you've visited Mumbai without trying salli boti, berry pulao, or kheema pao.
The most noticeable feature of Parsi cuisine in India is how it has evolved and split from Persian cuisine to carve out its own niche. The cuisine, like the Parsi community, has adapted local products and spices to create new dishes. During the British administration of India, modern-day Parsi cuisine was shaped in particular.
Popular Parsi dishes include:Chicken Farcha (Fried chicken appetizer)Dhansak (Lamb, mutton, goat, chicken or vegetables in a mixed lentil or toor daal gravy served with brown rice)Patra ni Machhi (Fish - Pomfret or Surmai stuffed heavily with green coconut chutney and wrapped in a banana leaf - steam cooked.)