Minority of Afghan Sikhs; "These were the most honest people in the Afghan society and country. "Hardworking, calm, harmless and kind." He recalls a memory of his association with the Sikhs in a note; "99 percent of the most honest, hard-working, harmless and kind citizens and citizens of Afghanistan have left the country in the last thirty years because of the persecution and oppression they have been subjected to. Members of Afghanistan's Hindu and Sikh communities have been killed many times over the years. "Their property was confiscated, their homes were looted and their lives were increasingly threatened." Sikhs and Hindus are two different ethnic groups and religions. There are no more than ten Hindu families in Afghanistan, but all of them have migrated. The Sikhs have also migrated en masse in recent years for a variety of reasons. These harmless and honest citizens of Afghanistan have been one of the ethnic and religious groups in recent years who have seen the most unkindness and unkindness from their Muslim compatriots. Many Afghans believe that the discrimination and prejudice against this ethnic and religious group is bone-chilling and hateful. They are stuck in a dilemma of staying and leaving Afghanistan; On the one hand, they are very attached to this country and love their homeland as much as their souls, and on the other hand, they have no hope of living in this country, so that as time goes by, this group becomes more and more vulnerable.

An Afghan Sikh citizen; Who did not want to be named.
He talked to me about past challenges. Their first victims in the social challenges of Afghan society were their children, who were freely and verbally abused in the streets, in the city and in the bazaar. "Our children used to pull their hair when they came out," he said. "He was harassing me." For this reason, several generations of Sikh and Hindu children in Ghazni were deprived of education, and the only thing available to them was religious lessons and lessons.

continued