1.Multi-Grain Bread
A lot of people choose multi-grain or seven-grain breads because they think they’re more nutrient-dense. The reality: Most of these breads still enriched wheat flour as the first ingredient. Sure, these breads may also contain whole grains, but they’re more an afterthought than the main event.

2.Anything "Sugar-Free
They seem healthy as they have no sugars, but are actually even harmful. Some contain aspartame which is linked to inducing cancer, but some come from natural sources like agave plants. Be mindful of where your sugar-free products come from and opt for zero sugar instead.

3.Flavored Yogurt
People fall on this trap because yogurt seems to be healthy as well as tasty due to flavours. But these in a combination are totally not healthy.When it comes to yogurt, choose plain or natural flavored over fruity flavors because  there is probably no actual fruit in your yogurt and also there is a lot more sugar.

4.Prepared Salads
Don’t be fooled, just because it says “salad” doesn’t mean it is the healthiest option. Most restaurant salads are doused in salad dressing which decreases the healthiness of a salad by a lot. The kale salad at Panera bread has 600 calories and 40g of sugar, that’s more than the Little Cheeseburger.

5.Smoothies
The smoothies made at stores rarely contain real fruit and are packed with sugar and calories. However, smoothies made at home are much healthier, but when it comes to ingredients, there are certain ones to stay away from.

6.Reduced-fat peanut butter
These highly processed spreads have the same number of calories as traditional peanut butter, they’ve just replaced the fat with fillers and sugar. Many manufacturers are also taking these reduced-fat butters and adding high-calorie flavorings to them, such as chocolate or strawberry.

7.Energy bars
Most energy bars are no different in terms of sugar, calorie and fat content than a standard candy bar – especially the ones that are coated in chocolate. They may sound healthy, with ingredients ranging from brown rice syrup to added fiber, but the reality is they’re little more than conveniently packaged calories