  Few things have defined the genre of rock and roll more than the guitar solo. Sometimes heavy and loud, at other times gentle and orchestrated, the guitar solos have defined entire generations of rock music from the 60s till today, particularly in hard rock and heavy metal, both of which feature guitar solos as their essential components.

Defining what is the greatest guitar solo is a thorny subject laced with fierce arguments which are mostly left inconclusive. There are so many brilliant guitar solos out there, some defined by their speed, technicality, precision and ultimate shred, some by their slow, melodic, emotional and calming nature, various rock and metal guitarists approach the subject of creating guitar solos differently.

Sometimes, some guitarists go overboard and become more focused on showing off their technique, sometimes bands add a solo simply for the sake of having a guitar solo, but sometimes, musicians get their stuff just right. There are guitar solos out there recognized as breathtaking and legendary, but what makes them so?

While ultimately it is impossible to determine what is the greatest guitar solo of all time, they can be identified on the basis of one common denominator alone. Does the guitar solo help build the entire song? And that is answered above all by the fact, if it is able to get you involved and make you remember the solo. That is a highly difficult task seldom done right.








The top 20 greatest guitar solos in rock/metal of all time:


1. Tornado of Souls ( Megadeth)
2. Hallowed Be Thy Name ( Iron Maiden)
3. High Hopes (Pink Floyd)
4. Child in Time (Deep Purple)
5. Stargazer (Rainbow)
6. Layla (Derek and the Dominos)
7. Mr. Crowley (Ozzy Osbourne)
8. Fade To Black (Metallica)
9. Painkiller (Judas Priest)
10. Limelight (Rush)
11. Rock Bottom ( UFO)
12. Floods (Pantera)
13. Constant Motion (Dream Theater)
14. Spirit Crusher (Death)
15. Over The Hills And Far Away (Gary Moore)
16. Heartbreaker (Led Zeppelin)
17. Hot For Teacher ( Van Halen)
18. While My Guitar Gently Weeps (The Beatles)
19. Sweet Child O’ Mine (Guns N’ Roses)
20. Blackbird (Alter Bridge)