Madan Mohan Kohli born on 25thJune 1924 in Iraq (Baghdad) was the most regarded Indian music composer of the years 1950s-70s. 
He stayed at Lahore, where he learned the fundamentals of classical music from Kartar Singh for a brief period, notwithstanding; he never got any formal training in music. Later, his family shifted to Bombay.
He joined the (AIR) All India Radio in 1946 as Program Assistant in Lucknow, where he interacted with different musicians, Talat Mahmood, Begum Akhtar, Ustad Faiyaz Khan and Ustad Ali Akbar Khan. Amid these days, he would compose music for All India Radio.
In 1948 and 1949, he helped S.D. Burman, the music composer for “Do Bhai”, and “Shyam Sundar” in Nirdosh. In 1950, he scored his first huge break with the movie Aankhen. His another motion picture "Adaa" saw the start of an enduring coordinated effort with Lata Mangeshkar; who would go ahead to sing for a large portion of his motion pictures. Two of his composed tunes "Sawan ke maheeney mein" from "Sharabi" and "Kabhi na Kabhi koi na koi toh aayega" the great melody, both filmed for Dev Anand are the most popular versions of the vocalist Mohammad Rafi. In 1957 he came out with a film Dekh Kabira Roya, in which Manna Dey sang "Kaun Aaya Mere Man Ke Dwaare" and exceptional numbers from movie Bawarchi like "Tum Bin Jeevan Kaisa Jeevan." 
Madan's music in  Raj Khosla's "Woh Kaun Thi?" Is the pinnacle of his career.
In 1970, amid the changing circumstances of western music, he composed the great Ghazals for  Dastak by Rajinder Singh Bedi and won his lone National Film Award in 1971 for Best Music Direction. His ghazal "Rasm-e-ulfat ko nibhaein to nibhaein kaise" from “Dil Ki Rahein", another great ghazal. is Naqsh Lallayalpuri wrote the ghazal. In 2004, Madan's child Sanjeev Kohli recreated 11 of his deceased father's unutilized compositions for the music of movie Veer-Zaara by Yash Chopra. Later, Kohli released a collection "Tere Baghair" which includes many tunes by Madan Mohan. Lata Mangeshkar titled him as the Prince of Ghazals.