By Vivek Gupta
Chandigarh: The Punjab and Haryana chief ministers failed to reach a consensus on Sutlej Yamuna Link (SYL) water-sharing issue during their meeting held in Chandigarh on October 14, Friday.
While Punjab Chief Minister Bhagwant Mann categorically said his state couldn’t spare even a single drop of water, Haryana CM Manohar Lal Khattar said he was disappointed with Punjab’s stand.
“From our side, this was our final meeting. There is no reason in taking any more initiative. We will brief the centre,” Khattar told the media after the meeting.
Newsdrum explains how and why the matter has been dragging on for over 50 years.
Why did both CMs hold the Friday meeting on this issue?
The meeting was held following the direction of the Supreme Court to find an amicable solution to one of the most prolonged river water-sharing disputes in the country. During the court hearing last month on September 6, SC nudged Punjab for failing to engage in talks with Haryana over the issue. Hence, this meeting took place.
What is the precursor of the SYL dispute?
The Union government in 1955 decided to distribute the water of Ravi and Beas between Rajasthan, undivided Punjab and Jammu & Kashmir for the development of these states. At that time, the water flowing down Ravi and Beas, two major rivers emerging from the Himalayas and flowing through Punjab, was assessed at 15.85 million acre-feet (MAF). While Rajasthan was allotted 8 MAF, undivided Punjab got 7.20 MAF and J&K 0.65 MAF.
What started the dispute?
Soon after the creation of Haryana from undivided Punjab in 1966, the new state started claiming its share over Ravi and Beas rivers to meet its future water needs while citing Section 78 of the Punjab Reorganisation Act. But Punjab refused to share it, citing the riparian principle, which maintains that the water of a river belongs only to the state in which the river flows.
Read more https://www.newsdrum.in/analysis/what-is-the-syl-issue-and-why-has-it-remained-unsolved-for-over-50-years-103034.html