In preparation for the 2024 general elections, Congress Rahul Gandhi today launched the party's extensive mass-contact campaign, known as the "Bharat Jodo Yatra," from Kanyakumari. In 150 days, the 3,500 km foot march will be completed.
"India is the nation whose institutions guard this flag. This flag is protected by the free media in India. India's judicial system defends this flag. And right now, the BJP and RSS are attacking each and every single one of our institutions. They believe they own this flag outright. They believe that they alone can determine the fate of this people, the state of this nation, "In his presentation, Rahul Gandhi stated.
According to Mr. Gandhi, the BJP and RSS believe they can "frighten opposition using ED, CBI, and Income Tax." No opposition politician will be terrified of the BJP, he continued, no matter how many hours they spend being questioned.
The Bharat Jodo Yatra, dubbed the "longest march" in the nation over a Century by the Congress, was begun with a gathering in Kanyakumari. On Thursday morning, the "padyatra," or foot march, will start.
Congress have claimed that the yatra "is meant to unite the country" and denied any political overtones. The leaders have stated that they will attempt to engage the general public on a number of problems during the march, such as unemployment, price increases, and inflation.
Sonia Gandhi, the head of the Congress, stated in a statement that she will take part "in thought and spirit" despite being unable to attend the launch owing to health difficulties. "Our great party, the Indian National Congress, which has such an illustrious history, is celebrating a historic milestone today. I have faith that our organisation will be revitalised, she continued.
A stronger Congress is required, according to senior party figure Jairam Ramesh, for the opposition to unite against the BJP. He added that the other opposition parties cannot take the Congress for granted. 
The Yatra comes with the Congress's attempts to hold internal elections, which have been continually delayed since Mr. Gandhi has refused to take part. A portion of the party wants the Gandhis to continue to be in charge.
