When Hridaan, 19, a gender-fluid person who was born female came out to their parents in West Bengal in August 2021, they were abused and beaten. Eventually, they decided to move in with their partner Siddhartha, 24, a binary trans man.


(The term ‘gender-fluid’ refers to persons whose gender expression or gender identity changes over time, whose preferred pronouns may be ‘they/them’. ) 

 

Hridaan immediately began to receive threats from their family. A police officer from the local police station in Haringhata in Nadia district, on the border with Bangladesh, also called and asked them to return home. 


“The officer threatened to frame Siddhartha for kidnapping if I didn’t go back home,” said Hridaan, who in January 2022 came out as a binary trans man with the preferred pronouns ‘he/him’.


Frightened, Hridaan decided to seek help from a different police station and approached the Bidhannagar police in Kolkata, seeking protection. Instead, police personnel there allegedly advised them to return to their parents. 

 

The next day, Hridaan was taken back home by their parents, by force. 


Fearing that they might be subjected to physical and sexual abuse, and unable to get support from the police, Siddhartha contacted Sappho for Equality, a Kolkata-based organisation working for the rights of lesbians, bisexual women, and trans men. 


“When Siddhartha called Sappho for help, I immediately got in touch with the chairperson of the West Bengal Transgender Persons Development Board, Shashi Panja,” said Kolika Mitra, a member of the board and at that time an employee at Sappho.



Mitra informed Panja of the situation and asked what kind of police intervention they could seek. The latter then spoke to the deputy superintendent of police (DySP) of Haringhata and sought help for a smooth rescue. 


“Whenever the police refused to co-operate and delayed (action) unnecessarily, Shashi Panja called the superintendent of police,” said Mitra, “and things were done immediately.”


Read More - https://article-14.com/post/4-years-after-sc-decriminalised-homosexuality-police-violence-against-lgbtqia-people-hasn-t-stopped-629820915541e