PM Narendra Modi on Sunday urged states to increase domestic production by accelerating the process for modernising agriculture, animal husbandry, and food processing to help India become self-sufficient and a global leader in the farm sector amid increased geopolitical tension and elevated food prices worldwide.

The prime minister aimed to persuade the states to concentrate on lowering imports, increasing exports, and looking for possibilities to ship commodities out of India. 
The government has worked to promote domestic manufacturing since the Covid-19 outbreak in early 2020 and the escalation of tensions with China. This effort has also been made in response to recent supply shocks for wheat, sunflower oil seeds, and palm oil as a result of the conflict in the Ukraine and Indonesian restrictions, which skyrocketed global prices.

One of the biggest imports into India is edible oil, which primarily consists of palm oil from Malaysia and Indonesia. Additionally, the nation is reliant on foreign sources for a number of pulses, including arhar and masur. According to Niti Aayog member Ramesh Chand, about half of India's cooking oil needs are met by imports, which Prime Minister Narendra Modi estimated to cost around Rs 1 lakh crore annually.

There was a lot of debate about crop diversification during the meeting, especially to improve the output of oilseeds and pulses.

According to Chand, states shared their knowledge on agricultural diversification, including problems like the Punjab and Haryana groundwater crisis. "Some states made suggestions that if they are helped in a particular way they can go for diversification in a much faster manner. Overall, states are quite cooperative and are working in these directions," he said.

In his speech, Modi asked the states to use technology to make living easier, transparent service delivery, and an improvement in everyone's quality of life, rather than viewing India's rising urbanisation as a weakness. 

The PM pointed to the recent rise in GST collections, while adding that there was scope to bolster it further. "Increasing GST collection requires collective action by the Centre and states. It is crucial for strengthening our economic position and becoming a $5 trillion economy," he said.