Premier League GW3 TOTW:
Pope - not often you’ll find a way in with 3 goals conceded as a Keeper, but Pope was sensational. Nick relieved all pressure with his fantastic claiming of crosses & some great saves, a great acquisition. 

Dalot - the first of the Man United fullbacks. The Portuguese had a tough task locking off Diaz, but even when isolated, the fullback stood strong. An integral cog to United’s Monday night triumph. 

Martinez - (another!) United defender. So close to putting Saliba, but the Argentine had a great game, very aggressive & made some great blocks. 

Sanchez - tenacious, aggressive, a brilliant game from the Colombian who covered in for the injured Romero with a clean sheet. 

Malacia - touch tight to one of the worlds best on his league debut, helped create a LHS overload for the Sancho goal, recovered immensely and made Salah’s game incredibly difficult. A superb debut.

Bruno G - Flawless, didn’t give Rodri a second to breathe, incredibly tenacious and hardworking. Just pips the spot over Joelinton. 

Roca - Leeds suffocated Chelsea & dominated the midfield & Roca was integral to doing so. Winning duels, and providing that safety barrier for Leeds’s front line. 

Harrison - The former Man City winger epitomised everything Leeds were on Sunday. Workrate, directness, end product, flair, it’s no secret why Dan Ashmore is trying to recruit his services. 

Bernardo Silva - a former to a current. A lovely composed finish, but far more. His control, ball retention, movement, composure, decision making among more was sensational. For his first game on the right in a while, the Portuguese was integral to Man City’s comeback.

Mitrovic - A winning goal, a MOTM award too. The Serb has been a handful. So physical, great back to goal play, and obscene aerially. A nightmare to face. 

ASM - entirely unplayable. Stones, Walker, Rodri, no one could get the near the Frenchman. His footwork, speed, directness, end product was on another level. For me, the player of the week.