The 2022 summer window was like a roaster-coaster ride, with many surprises unpacked ondeadline day. Fans got to witness some mouth-watering transfers which made the season even more special.
The signings of the likes of Robert Lewandowski and Erling Haaland have turned out to be a masterstroke for their respective sides. However, there are also some signings that had high hopes attached to them but have not been able to deliver up to expectations.
With further ado, let’s look at the top five summer signings that have turned out to be flops this season so far:
1) Darwin Nunez - Benfica to Liverpool (€100m)
Liverpool broke the bank to land Darwin Nunez as a replacement for Sadio Mane, who decided to leave the club after a memorable stint. Liverpool fans have held their hopes very high but are yet to get the dividends.
The Uruguayan forward has temperament and technical issues which is a matter of concern for Jurgen Klopp’s side. Nunez has managed to strike only twice so far, with almost ten big chances missed already.
At the start of the season, Nunez was being compared to Erling Haaland, who signed for Liverpool’s rivals Man City for a much lesser price. The Norwegian striker is netting goals forfun and is currently the leading goal scorer in the English league.
2) Casemiro - Real Madrid to Man Utd (€80m)
Real Madrid approved Casemiro’s request to leave for Manchester United this summer. He has been one of the best players in his position for almost a decade. With the Spanish club, he won all the possible trophies, including the prestigious Champions League five times.
However, the renowned footballer has been mostly warming the bench so far. Manager Erikten Hag has found a formidable midfielder in the form of Scott McTominay, who has been intop-notch form for the Red Devils this season.
This has led to Casemiro, who was bought for €80m, to start games from the bench. Thesum invested in him is a bit too much considering the type of role the side have allotted him. On top of that, the Brazilian footballer is already 30-year-old.