Many people want strong and healthy hair, especially as they grow older. 

We all have our good hair days and bad hair days but to keep it healthy and stronger we need to eat certain foods that gives it adequate protein. 

Our hair usually grows around 0.5 inches (1.25 cm) per month and 6 inches (15 cm) per year. Speed of the growth depends on factors like age health, genetics and diet, that one follows. 

Factors like age and genetics, diet can be changed but they definitely have control over one. While we font eat nutrients that are essential for our hair growth it leads to hair loss and other problems. 

On the other hand, eating a balanced diet with the right nutrients can help promote hair growth, especially if you’re experiencing hair loss due to poor nutrition. 

Here are few foods that are rich for healthy hair growth 

• Eggs 

Eggs are a great source of protein and biotin, two nutrients that may promote hair growth. 

Eggs can be added into our diets very easily through recipes like boiled eggs, sunny side up, scotch eggs and many other varieties of it. They are important for hair growth as hair follicles are mostly made of protein. And lack of these protein can cause hair loss. 

• Berries 

Berries are loaded with beneficial compounds and vitamins that may promote hair growth. 

This includes vitamin C, which has strong antioxidant properties. 

Antioxidants can help protect hair follicles against damage from harmful molecules called free radicals. These molecules exist naturally in the body and the environment 

• Spinach 

Spinach is a healthy green vegetable that’s loaded with beneficial nutrients like folate, iron, and vitamins A and C, all of which may promote hair growth (11). 

Vitamin A helps the skin glands produce sebum. This oily substance helps moisturize the scalp to keep hair healthy 

• Fatty Fish 

Fatty fish like salmon, herring and mackerel have nutrients that may promote hair growth. 

They are excellent sources of omega-3 fatty acids, which have been linked to hair growth. 


Sources - https://www.webmd.com/beauty/ss/slideshow-foods-healthy-hair 

https://www.healthline.com/nutrition/foods-for-hair-growth