By Kinjal
Last month, a CCTV clip of a man abducting a child from Mathura Railway Station went viral on social media. Police later found the child from a BJP councilor’s home. The incident has since sparked yet another cycle of child abduction rumours which are being circulated on various social media platforms, especially WhatsApp. In 2019, similar rumours had wreaked havoc in some parts of the country. Alt News has worked tirelessly to uncover the truth behind these rumours.
Over the last few weeks, there have been multiple incidents of mob attacks on so-called suspicious individuals in several parts of the country. For some time, a viral claim about child snatchers-cum-organ traders wandering in the guise of sadhus has been making the rounds. While investigating one of these, Alt News recently found that a few sadhus getting beaten up on the suspicion of being child-lifters had committed some petty theft in Madhya Pradesh.
Of late, various media outlets have reported incidents where people have been beaten up based on these rumours. In Uttar Pradesh’s Sitapur, a woman was thrashed over rumours of child theft. Taking cognizance of these incidents, police have issued a number of statements. The Sitapur Police put out a statement quashing the rumours. Moradabad Police, Bareilly Police, and Hardoi Police have also issued statements calling these rumours baseless.
Very recently, a 2-minute video gained traction on social media. It showed the logo of ‘The Live TV News’. In the footage, a group of sadhus are seen sitting on the ground with the police surrounding them. The voice-over running in the background claims that 28 sadhus from Beerapatti village of Banaras were caught red handed while killing children to steal their kidneys. Twitter handle ‘@MrKhan1A’ made the claim while tweeting this video. The post garnered more than 3,500 retweets at the time of the writing of this article.
Read the full story here:- https://www.altnews.in/false-claim-of-28-sadhus-were-caught-stealing-kedney-in-varanasi-up-goes-viral/?utm_source=website&utm_medium=social-media&utm_campaign=newpost