"The wounded Lions fell prey to the Bees'"

When Jose Mourinho said, " Finishing 2nd with Manchester United was his biggest achievement" people mocked the "special one" and tagged him as delusional. Fast forward to 2022, and the statement made by the Portuguese seems to be true. When six months ago, Ragnick stated that "United needs an open heart surgery" the United board relieved him of his duties. The Austrian had also said that "United needs to sell ten and buy ten players to compete at a higher level" Indicating that the current United team does not have what it takes to wear the United jersey.. Again, fast forward to 2022, and Ragnick was right. 

Brentford made lightwork of Manchester United to add to Ten Hag and United's misery. After losing their opener at Old Trafford to Brighton, this demolition does not come as a surprise. The Red Devils will not forget the first 35 minutes at Glech Community Stadium in haste. Manchester United was not only embarrassed but was torn apart by Brentford. 

The changes Ten Hag made to the United lineup heavily backfired. The midfield for United was non-existent, and starting Eriksen in the holding midfield role turned out to be a suicide. De Gea's position might also be in jeopardy because of his woeful performance. The Spaniard was deemed by many as not the ideal goalkeeper for Ten Hag. A modern sweeper keeper is what Ten Hag prefers, and De Gea is the opposite. The Spaniard was at fault for the first two goals and seemed uncomfortable while playing out from the back. The performances of the United players have gone from bad to worst. As a result of which, they sit at the bottom of the PL table. 

The Slogans saying, "It's time for Glazers to go." were displayed openly by the fans in yesterday's clash. The Glazers' have turned a blind eye to the well-functioning of the club. The owners of United have pulled the club, and its well wishers to the dirt. A club whose tales are as old and legendary as time is on the verge of calamity.