Sleeping for an extra hour each night can help people shave around 270 calories off their daily diet - the equivalent of three chocolate biscuits, new research has found. 

Writing in the journal Jama Internal Medicine, they found that young, overweight adults who habitually slept fewer than 6.5 hours a night were able to add an extra 1.2 hours per night after undergoing counselling to improve their sleeping habits. 

Dr Esra Tasali, said: "If healthy sleeping habits are maintained over a longer duration, this would lead to clinically important weight loss over time." 

According to researchers, these new findings demonstrate that healthy sleep habits may lead to weight loss over time. 

“Our findings suggest that getting sufficient sleep could be a game changer in our battle with [the] obesity epidemic as a society,” study researcher Dr. Estra Tasali, director of the UChicago Sleep Center at the University of Chicago Medicine, told Healthline. 

Better sleep linked to lower caloric intake 

Researchers recruited 80 adults, ages 21 to 40, with obesity who habitually slept fewer than 6.5 hours a night. 

Participants received a customized sleep hygiene counseling session. They slept in their own beds and tracked their sleep with wearable devices. 

They kept their normal routines and weren’t advised to change their diet or exercise habits. 

On average, researchers advised the participants to increase their sleep by 1.2 hours to spend 8.5 hours in bed each night. 

Their caloric intake and daily energy stores were measured via a urine-based test. 

According to researchers, this amount could translate to a loss of 26 pounds over 3 years. 

This study is in line with prior research connecting sleep deprivation and disruptions in appetite regulation and weight gain. 

“Prior research showed that sleep loss leads to increases [in] food intake in the laboratory setting and weight gain. In our study, we showed for the first time that in [a] real-word setting, objectively tracked caloric intake is decreased when sleep is extended in individuals who habitually sleep less than 6.5 hours,” Tasali said. 

Read more -
https://www.healthline.com/health-news/how-getting-an-extra-1-2-hours-of-sleep-may-help-you-eat-fewer-calories 

https://www.google.com/amp/s/news.sky.com/story/amp/sleeping-for-an-extra-hour-every-night-can-help-you-lose-weight-study-finds-12535564