Mary Tape was a desegregation activist who fought for Chinese-Americans' access to education. In the case Tape v. Hurley in 1885 the  Supreme Court of California stated that public schools could not forbid her daughter Mamie Tape for being Chinese-American.

She was an unaccompanied minor from China who emigrated at a very small age. Tape's accomplishments as an amateur photographer and painter captivated the attention of a local reporter, who described his disbelief that "a Chinese girl" was competent of these skills. 

When Mary Tape's daughter, Mamie, was refuted admission at Spring Valley Primary School because of her Chinese heritage. The Tape family filed suit against the school principal and the city's board of education. The suit was recognized by the Superior Court and upheld by the Supreme Court of California in Tape v. Hurley. The school superintendent pushed through legislation to create "separate but equal" Chinese schools and directed the Tapes to a new Chinese Primary School in Chinatown.

While Joseph(her husband) and Mamie Tape(her daughter) are named in the suit,it was Mary Tape who went on with arguing their case in a detailed letter of protest to the Board of Education, which concluded with a statement that prejudice is un-American. She said: "I will let the world see Sir What justice there is When it is govern by the Race prejudice men! just because she is of the Chinese decend [sic] [...] just because she is descended of Chinese parents I guess she is more of an American then a good many of you that is going to prevent her being Educated".

Mary Tape died in 1934. Although she was unsuccessful in getting her children into the white public school, Tape v. Hurley became a landmark case addressing segregation in public schools.

 In 1947, the federal circuit court case Mendez v. Westminster ruled that school segregation of non-white minority children violated the Equal Protection Clause. California governor Earl Warren subsequently ratified a law ending school segregation in California. About 70 years after Tape v. Hurley, the 1954 U.S. Supreme Court case Brown v. Board of Education finally ruled that racial segregation in public schools was unconstitutional in the United States. This is also the part of struggle of Mary Tape for years.