The first quarter (Q1) of the current fiscal year (FY23) saw strong year-on-year (Y-o-Y) revenue growth for newly listed tech startups like Zomato, Paytm, Nykaa, and MapMyIndia due to increases in gross order value (GOV), strong monetisation in payments, gross merchandise value (GMV), and distinctive new-age deep-tech digital products, respectively.

Paytm recorded the highest Y-o-Y revenue growth of the four, at 88.5 percent, as the amount increased to Rs 1,679.6 crore compared to the same period last year. This growth was driven by an increase in device subscriptions and accelerated adoption of high-margin businesses like lending.

Zomato's revenue increased 67 percent YoY to Rs 1,413.90, driven by an increase in revenue per order and a 10 percent sequential growth in GOV to Rs 6,430 crore in the April-June quarter. Strong growth in order volumes and modest growth in average order values when compared to the prior quarter helped GOV maintain its pace.

The third-place finisher in the digital map industry was CE Info Systems, which develops advanced digital maps and operates under the MapMyIndia brand. Its revenue from operations increased by about 50% to Rs 65 crore from the same period last year as a result of the company's provision of services like highly distinctive and exclusive advanced digital maps, SaaS Products, API platforms, and IoT devices.

A successful stock market IPO in November of last year helped omnichannel beauty retailer FSN Ecommerce Ventures, also known as Nykaa, expand its sales by 41% year over year to Rs 1,148.4 crore and its gross merchandise value (GMV) by 47% YoY to Rs 2,156 crore. The consolidated GMV of Nykaa has increased at a 61 percent CAGR during the past three years. Owned brand GMV accounted for 11.2 percent of overall GMV.

The four significant tech businesses that made their stock market debuts last year saw a mixed bag of profits. Although their stock prices soared up immediately following their initial public offerings, the majority of them have yet to achieve profitability.