Body shaming and body image issues have unfortunately now become a part of childhood and teenage experiences. Here’s how I believe as a teenager parents can play an important role in helping child deal with body image issues: 

1. Limiting social media time: With internet at our disposal every time, children end up comparing the best filtered or at times photoshopped images with their natural unfiltered and what they consider their ‘worst’ self. Social media tricks into believing you aren’t beautiful , talented or rich enough to fit into the ‘desired’ ‘conventional’ beauty standards. Parents should spend time with children ,stay connected to kids and encourage open communication about insecurities this an opportunity to address issues together

2. Speaking against derogatory or judgmental remarks: At first, parents should avoid making such remarks to their kids if their child is dealing with body image issues and if any family member or relative judges your child based on his\her appearance and body type ; take a stand against it

3.Act as a role model: How can you expect your son or daughter to love themselves when they often see their mother or father looking themselves at mirror and pointing out the flaws with their height, weight or skin. 

4.Awareness among peers: Children spend a large share of time with their peers. Any negative comments from them does hamper the self esteem. It’s important that as a parent one should make attempt to cultivate the idea of body positivity among your child as well his/her friends through stories, role plays. Workshops through school’s help can also bring change. 

5.Maintain their healthy lifestyle: Often as a result of considering themselves ‘fat’ enough teenagers refuse to have proper meals or at times develop eating disorders which further affects their physical and mental health. In such cases one can also seek help from psychologists. Awareness from parents regarding nourishment of body through healthy diet and exercise is essential for holistic development.