Do Gemstones Work—No They Don’t for 90% of the People continues ...... 

2. Recommendation is correct, gem is incorrect 

This is the scenario which leads to maximum failures in Gem Therapy. In most cases when a gem prescription is going to work the force of the negative karmic life map takes over and makes an individual wear a flawed gem with the result that there are no positive breakthroughs. Following permutations and combinations occur in this clause: 

(a) Gem is heavily flawed: Natural gemstones will have some visible inclusions which prove that they were born in the lap of Mother Nature and not created in a laboratory. However a good quality gemstone is characterized by a uniform cut, good clarity with little to no inclusion, having a good lustre and adequate size. Please note my use of adequate size. Big is not exactly powerful if it is not a clean gemstone. This fascination for gem weight leads to maximum failures in Gem Therapy. Imagine what you find more impressive—A man wearing a 1 carat flawless diamond or a bonded labourer carrying 100 Kg worthless stones on his head with a bent back. 

This can best be illustrated by pictures 
Ruby A Heavily flawed African Ruby of 6.5 carats purchased at $50/INR 3300 per carat (I 
really don't know even if this one is actually an African stone. Owner says it was sold to him with the description reading as African. Looks like a sample from South India rather than Africa)

I really would not classify this even as a gemstone. I will just qualify this as 
a mineral sample. Gemstones by definition are precious, rare and durable which this so called Ruby is obviously lacking. 

Yes, I know several shady geology departments and Gem Labs operating out of nowhere issuing certificates that will classify this as a Ruby. There will be no mention of treatments or comments about colour or clarity etc. This 
certificate is used just to mentally satisfy a client that he/she is wearing something genuine. What kind of results will this gemstone give? None. 

To be continued......