Nuno Tavares, a defender for Arsenal, is apparently in negotiations with Brighton as the
left-back merry-go-round in the Premier League, which also includes Manchester City, picks up
speed.

Tavares appears to be no longer needed at the Emirates because the Gunners have been open
about wanting to improve the left side of their defence this summer. The Kieran Tierney successor during last season's injury-ravaged campaign was the Portugal Under-21 international, who struggled to establish himself as a capable replacement.

This summer, the 22-year-old drew interest from Marseille and Atalanta, but it now seems a loan
transfer to Brighton may be in the works, particularly if Marc Cucurella leaves the Seagulls. The
left-back transfer domino effect is starting to pick up speed, and it can all be attributed to
Arsenal.

Oleksandr Zinchenko's summer transfer to Arsenal from City is nearly complete. Mikel Arteta
declared a deal was finalised, pending a "few formalities," after Arsenal's 3-1 preseason friendly
victory over Orlando City in the United States on Thursday morning, a game the Ukrainian
attended.

The deal, which is said to have cost around £35 million, has now set off a significant cascade of
events. Pep Guardiola has identified Marc Cucurella of Brighton as a potential successor since
City is willing to sell Zinchenko, a flexible player who has primarily played left-back.

Graham Potter's team appears to have chosen Arsenal's Tavares as a potential replacement for
Brighton's left-back as the Premier League champions are eager to steal him away. O JOGO
claims that the Seagulls and the Gunners are now negotiating a prospective loan agreement for
the left-back.

Tavares only transferred from Benfica to Arsenal last summer for a reported £8 million, but it's
believed Arteta wants the young full-back to acquire experience abroad to advance his career.

Tavares made 28 appearances for the Gunners last season, mostly as a result of Tierney's time
spent receiving treatment.