By Shekhar Iyer

The 2022 Presidential polls could turn out to be a test for the unity among the Opposition parties -- rather than pose a very serious challenge to Prime Minister Narendra Modi's efforts to have a preferred person in the Rashtrapati Bhavan.

Everyone knows that the numbers in the electoral college that chooses the President favour the ruling National Democratic Alliance (NDA).

Therefore, the fight by the Opposition parties in this regard will be a symbolic one -- or, as Congress chief Sonia Gandhi described, to show the people to elect a President, who can apply a "healing touch to its fractured social fabric and defend our Constitution."

Yet the Opposition leaders, particularly West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee, are keen to see to it that a pattern is established. They want a weakened Congress to back their nominee rather than the other way around. So that the token fight against the NDA nominee is seen as being led by non-Congress parties with the Congress playing the second fiddle.

Mamata sees the Presidential polls as a test case ahead of the Lok Sabha polls of 2024. Her idea is to force Congress to abdicate the stewardship of the opposition in favour of the non-Congress parties that are opposed to the BJP.

She, like her Telangana counterpart K Chandrasekhar Rao, dreams of a scenario where, instead of the Congress,  the parties like the Trinamool Congress, Telangana Rashtra Samithi, Nationalist Congress Party, Shiv Sena, and the DMK lead the charge against the BJP in the 2024 elections.

She wants the Presidential polls to be a trendsetter. Her idea is that, in the event of a hung House in 2024 where the BJP does not have sufficient numbers to form the government, the Congress will be forced to take the backseat and back them to keep the Hindutva forces out of power.

In any case, these non-Congress parties cannot form a government without the Congress being a major partner.

Read the full story here:- https://www.newsdrum.in/columns/presidential-election-will-presidential-polls-be-a-test-of-opposition-unity-43617.html