The 2022 edition of the Laver Cup has already become a historic event. Roger Federer’s announcement to retire from the professional game has fixated everyone’s eyes on the event. The reunion of the Big Four for one last time at a tournament just adds to its magnificence.
The Laver Cup has been the annual continental team event since 2016. This year’s Team Europe will consist of the Big Four – Roger Federer, Rafael Nadal, Novak Djokovic, Andy Murray – along with youngsters Casper Ruud and Stefanos Tsitsipas. Team World will be represented by Americans – TaylorFritz, Jack Sock, and Francis Tiafoe — along with Felix Auger-Alliasime, Diego Schwartzman, and Alex deMinaur.
Team Europe is the four-time defending champions for the event. They had a convincing victory last year, winning 14-1. It is expected with the current lineups of both the teams that this edition will be more competitive. Europe’s challenge comes in the form of four players above 35 who are well past their peak and they will heavily depend on the Greeks and the Norwegian to pull their ship. Team World on the other hand will look to give its best and capitalize on its opportunities. It is expected for them to dominate the doubles proceedings and racks up their points.
Federer to bow out with a friendly foe by his side
Laver Cup’s Day 1 schedule will also be the final time we get to see Roger Federer on the court for a professional match. He announced he won’t be taking part in the singles competition. To partner with him in his last match would be his close friend and often an on-court nemesis for him, Rafael Nadal. The Swiss-Spaniard pairing will be up against the American duo of Jack Sock and Francis Tiafoe. It is expected to be a close match up but fans would want the Federal duo to triumph.
The rest of the Day 1 lineup includes Casper Ruud and Stefanos Tsitsipas going against Jack Sock and Diego Schwartzman respectively. The final singles action will see Brit Andy Murray taking on Australian Alex de Minaur.