Beginning on October 1, 2022 at 13:30 UTC, FC Köln and Borussia Dortmund will square off at the RheinEnergieStadion stadium in Cologne, Germany. 
The hosts are comfortably in the championship chase and dispatched a troubled Arminia Bielefeld 3-1 in their previous league encounter. That triumph was their third league triumph in a succession and so they’ll be in a strong mood ahead of this one. They now have nine straight home victories in the league, which is their greatest streak since 1994. In their past 21 league home games against Cologne, Dortmund has only suffered one loss.
After receiving a 5-0 beating at the claws of Hoffenheim in the previous game, Cologne maintained their surprising start to the season by rallying from a goal down to salvage a late draw against rivals Bayer Leverkusen. The visitors are winless on the road this year, but the Billy Goats are off to their finest Bundesliga start in five years.
FC Köln vs Borussia Dortmund : Probable Playing XI
FC Köln: Marvin Schwäbe, Benno Schmitz, Nikola Soldo, Timo Bernd Hübers, Jonas. Hector, Dejan Ljubičić, Ellyes Skhiri, Jan Thielmann, Ondrej Duda, Florian Kainz, Steffen Tigges
 
Borussia Dortmund: Alexander Meyer, Thomas Meunier, Mats Julian Hummels, Nico Schlotterbeck, Marius Wolf, Jude Bellingham, Salih Özcan, Julian Brandt, Marco Reus, Donyell Malen, Anthony Mbu Agogo Modeste
FC Köln vs Borussia Dortmund: Prediction
This one has the potential to be a real cracker. While both sides are scoring goals, they are also giving up goals. This match should feature goals, and Dortmund's strategy of winning with both goals scored this year has been very successful for the home team. We anticipate a high-scoring contest in which both sides will register goals, but eventually the home club will improve its home record.
Prediction: FC Koln 2- 1 Borussia Dortmund
FC Köln vs Borussia Dortmund: Live Stream
In the UK, Sky Sports holds exclusive rights to broadcast Bundesliga matches. Bundesliga matches may be viewed live and on demand by subscribers using the Sky Go mobile app or the online player.