By Shekhar Iyer
New Delhi: Recent moves by Opposition chief ministers may be pointers to the kind of challenge they hope to build up against Prime Minister Narendra Modi in the 2024 Lok Sabha polls. But they are also facing new hurdles, which they must overcome before the BJP tries to gain any benefit.
Backed by immense resources, Telangana Chief Minister K Chandrashekar Rao has changed the name of his party while Tamil Nadu CM M K Stalin has asked his DMK men to work hard to win all the 40 Lok Sabha seats from his state and neighbouring Puducherry.
Not to be left behind, West Bengal CM Mamata Banerjee wants to re-engage her old aide Mukul Roy who had joined BJP and come back but was in limbo – so that he can help her regain complete control of the party machinery to win the panchayat polls next year and later all the 42 parliamentary seats from the state.
Even as he is trying to unite all erstwhile Janata Parivar constituents, Bihar CM Nitish Kumar is under pressure from his deputy and RJD leader Tejashwi Yadav to merge his Janata Dal (United) with Lalu Prasad Yadav's Rashtriya Janata Dal by early 2023.
Of course, the Congress is on a high of its own, buoyed by the Bharat Jodo Yatra of Rahul Gandhi and wants friendly party leaders like Sharad Pawar and Lalu Prasad Yadav to join in the five-month-long walkathon at some stage.
Seeing his financial clout, neighbouring Karnataka former CM H D Kumaraswamy thought it prudent to be with Rao when he renamed his Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS) as the Bharat Rashtra Samithi (BRS) on October 5. 
So did a DMK ally, Thol Thirumavalavan, an MP from Chidambaram and founder and president of Viduthalai Chiruthaigal Katchi (VCK).
In Bihar, a lot seems to be happening behind the scenes. The RJD passed a resolution on October 5 to give its president Lalu Prasad Yadav or his son and deputy chief minister Tejashwi Yadav full freedom to change the name and symbol. 
Read more https://www.newsdrum.in/columns/2024-ls-polls-opposition-cms-on-the-move-for-2024-challenge-to-modi-101900.html
