The early days of the COVID-19 pandemic in South Africa saw the government impose a lockdown in a bid to save lives. It introduced several interventions to cushion the impact of the crisis caused by the shutdown of economic activities on citizens. Among the measures were food aid as well as unemployment and debt relief.

Refugees and asylum seekers expected similar protection. Their expectations flowed from the fact that the South African government has a responsibility to protect them according to the Refugees Act 130 of 1998.

The act incorporates international protections enshrined in the 1951 United Nations (UN) Convention and the African Union Convention. These require states or the UN High Commissioner for Refugees to uphold the human rights of refugees and asylum seekers. An asylum seeker is someone who has applied for sanctuary, and whose application is still being adjudicated. A refugee is someone who has already been granted asylum.

South Africa does not place refugees in camps, where their basic needs would be the responsibility of the UN. So the government is responsible for their socio-economic needs. These include food, shelter, healthcare and the right to run a business, work and study.

According to a 2019 UN report, the country had 89,285 formally recognised refugees and 188,285 asylum seekers. From 2008 until 2012, the number of asylum seekers had increased to 800,000 – mostly Zimbabweans. Besides Zimbabwe, asylum seekers in South Africa come mainly from Somalia, the Democratic Republic of Congo, the Republic of Congo, Ethiopia, Burundi, Pakistan and Bangladesh.

Socio-economic interventions
As some refugees and asylum seekers are active in the South African economy, their economic activities were also affected by the lockdown.

But it became evident early on that the state was reluctant to implement the Refugees Act in a way that would enable them to benefit meaningfully from its COVID-19 relief packages.

Read more - https://theconversation.com/south-africas-covid-relief-measures-mostly-excluded-refugees-a-neglect-of-duty-178538