According to a recent survey, religious leaders shouldn't be overly concerned that the increasing accessibility of religious content and activities online will entice Millennials away from places of worship.

On the contrary, according to researcher Sarah Wilkins-Laflamme, "Digital Religion Among U.S. and Canadian Millennial Adults," a paper published last year in the Review of Religion Research, faith content and activities made available virtually are, in some cases, improving the in-person religious experience for participating Americans and Canadians ages 18 to 35.

“We know that more and more people are turning toward digital mediums for spirituality such as chat groups with pastors, online sermons, and religious content on social media,” said Wilkins-Laflamme, a sociologist at the University of Waterloo in Ontario. “We’ve found that while digital religion isn’t necessarily attracting a lot of new Millennials to participate, it is making the experience of those already involved richer.”

She stressed that the tendency does not, however, represent most Millennials. However, a sizable portion of the young adult population still practises it, and for many of them, digital religion serves as an essential addition to their in-person religious practise.

Her research makes a distinction between Millennials who actively publish spiritual themes to online platforms like social media and those who passively receive religious information, such readings and worship, on similar channels.

The subjects were questioned about their participation in such activities over the course of a year. The majority of respondents in the United States who chose "Not at all" included 36% who said they did not read religious information online and 53% who said they did not express their spiritual beliefs on social media platforms including Instagram, Snapchat, Twitter, and Facebook.

In most other responses, active blogging lagged behind digital content consumption.

The percentage of millennials who claimed to post something at least once per day (11%) only barely outnumbered content consumers (10 percent ).

The statistics, according to Wilkins-Laflamme, show that Americans use digital religion much more frequently than Canadians.