As the Jammu and Kashmir government stamps out the last vestiges of the free press in Kashmir, the arrest and incarceration of website editor Fahad Shah arrest marks an unprecedented level of intimidation, with security forces raiding homes of journalists, calling them in frequently for questioning, pressurising families and filing criminal cases. Bylines and tweets have disappeared, and some reporters have fled Kashmir.

Two weeks have passed since Kashmiri journalist Fahad Shah was arrested on 4 February at a police station in Pulwama, an hour’s drive from Srinagar, where he worked as a freelance reporter and the editor-in-chief of an independent news website The Kashmir Walla. 

The day after he was arrested—after publishing a story that quoted the police and the family of a teenager killed in what officials said was a firefight—Shah was seen returning to the police station from the Pulwama district court in handcuffs. 

Shah’s arrest marked an unprecedented level of and escalation in the intimidation of journalists, with raids on homes, frequent questioning and pressure on families. The persecution has been emotionally and financially draining on a young crop of reporters. 

Many journalists feel they have no choice but to censor themselves. Some have left Kashmir. Others are looking for opportunities in other cities. All those who spoke to us for this story did so on condition of anonymity for fear of police attention. 

Colleagues who visited Shah told Article 14 that he was shaken, aching to get out and adamant that his parents not see him behind bars. His initial 10-day detention extended on 14 February for seven days, Shah spoke of the police lockup getting “very cold” at night during the receding winter. 

With three police cases registered against him in less than two years, interrogations and a detention at gunpoint, Shah, 33, was not oblivious to the danger of arrest, a close friend of his told Article 14, speaking on the condition of anonymity. 

Read more- https://article-14.com/post/with-arrest-of-editor-after-reporting-both-sides-of-story-govt-escalates-criminalisation-of-journalism-in-kashmir-620f079a0fd00