The world is evolving with a lightening speed and The next wave of digital change is here, providing forward-looking companies with an opportunity to act today to be ready for the future. One of the biggest innovation for the future is the Metaverse. Welcome to the Metaverse Continuum—a spectrum of digitally enhanced worlds, realities and business models poised to revolutionize life and enterprise in the next decade. Here are four such trends which are going to change the world of technology forever. 
WebMe looks at how the internet is being reimagined. The last two years have spurred enterprises to explore new modes of digital experience and pushed people to live virtually to an extent they never expected. Now the metaverse is emerging, reconciling how the internet is designed with what we will demand from it going forward. The value of new virtual worlds would be capped if not for parallel changes that anchor them in the physical one. Programmable World tracks how technology exists in our physical environments in increasingly sophisticated ways. It projects how the convergence of new technologies like 5G are changing the way businesses interact with the physical world. We’ll soon be able to unlock an unprecedented level of control, automation and personalization. We’re exploring the emergence of The Unreal—a trend where our environments are increasingly filled with machines that are passably human. “Unreal” qualities are becoming intrinsic to the AI, and even the data, that enterprises are using. But bad actors are using it, too—from deepfakes to bots and more. Like it or not, enterprises have been thrust into the forefront of a world questioning what’s real, what isn’t and if the line between those two really matters.Finally, we will reset the boundaries of traditional industries as we begin Computing the Impossible. The outer limit of what is computationally possible is being disrupted as a new class of machines emerges. Quantum, biologically inspired and high-performance computers are each allowing companies to tackle the biggest challenges in their industries. These are the upcoming trends in the world of Metaverse.