While the Lakers may have a desire to be active on the trade market, the relative silence surrounding the team and potential trades has been noteworthy. While they have been linked to a number of potential trade targets, none of the reports have indicated serious discussions, instead often relaying a more “due diligence” approach by the Lakers.

Part of the reason that has been the case is the lack of interest in what the Lakers are offering. The team’s three most tradable assets feature an underperforming third-year guard who just got paid (Talen Horton-Tucker), a guard who hasn’t played a game this season (Kendrick Nunn) and a distant first round draft pick (2027).

So, while the team has been interested in making moves, there hasn’t been a ton of mutual interest across the league yet. One of the players that has been the target of rumors has been Pistons forward Jerami Grant. Seen as a solution to the Lakers problems on the wing, Grant is a perfect fit in the Lakers starting lineup... on paper.

In reality, a mixture of things has led to the Lakers and Pistons not getting close to a deal. Eric Pincus of Bleacher Report told host Alen Ramic on the latest episode of “The NBA Chats” that the Lakers and Pistons both appear to have moved on from trade discussions for a variety of reasons.

A recent report from Jake Fischer of Bleacher Report indicated many of the things that Pincus alluded to: Grant wants to be a primary option offensively, and he expects to be offered a big extension by teams that trade for him.

For the Lakers, Grant would be nothing more than the third option (at best), and as a result he would almost certainly not sign an extension. Grant was in a similar position with the Nuggets two years ago and opted to leave the franchise for Detroit where he would be the focal point of the team offensively. It’s a gamble that paid off for him personally, but one that limits his trade market as a result.

Read more
https://www.silverscreenandroll.com/2022/1/25/22900709/jerami-grant-lakers-trade-rumors-pistons-talen-horton-tucker-kendrick-nunn