Princess Diana's 1981 wedding gown is arguably one of the most iconic bridal looks of all time. When she married, Di was only 20 years old and quickly became one of the world's most publicized figures. In anticipation of the July 29 ceremony, fans and media outlets alike were wild with curiosity about what Di would wear down the aisle.

Designers Elizabeth and David Emanuel were tasked with creating the royal wedding gown and took several precautions to keep the dress a secret prior to the nuptials. According to 'Royal Style in the Making' exhibit curator Matthew Storey, the team put scraps of fabric that were not used on the actual dress in the garbage in case any members of the press went looking for clues. 

When July 29, 1981, finally arrived, Princess Di arrived at St. Paul's Cathedral wearing a voluminous ivory ball gown with a sparkling veil and record breaking 25-foot train.

The grand train broke records as the longest in royal wedding history. The length was suggested by David in response to the then-reigning length of 20 feet. "Halfway through, we realized, we're not going to finish this," he recalled. "Behind the scenes we're thinking, maybe we've bitten off too much ... keep sewing!"

The silk taffeta dress was specially woven and dyed ivory and featured a ruffled collar, puffed sleeves, voluminous skirt and, most notable, a dramatic 25-foot train and 153-yard tulle veil.

However, the train was so long that it had to be "folded like a bedsheet" to fit inside the horse-drawn carriage that transported the bride to St. Paul's Cathedral, resulting in wrinkles.

In addition to including antique lace from Queen Mary as Princess Diana's "something old," the wedding dress also included a blue bow inside the bodice as the bride's "something blue." Diana put a hidden good luck charm on her dress, too: an 18-carat gold horseshoe trinket studded with white diamonds.

Di wore the Spencer Tiara on her wedding day, a Spencer family heirloom.

Di's wedding shoes, which had a heart design on top and were covered in 542 sequins and 132 pearls, were created by cobbler Clive Shilton. "Her main concern was that she wouldn't appear taller than Prince Charles."