By Shivaji Dasgupta

The answer, quite simply, is that cash is not just valuable currency but indeed invaluable culture, to our impressionable demography. It effortlessly straddles the perks of virtue as well as the perils of sin, changing hues without altering colors.

In the early 1970s, the income tax rates for the highest slab could go as high as 90 percent, a very clear reason why the successful hoarded cash. This, when coupled with the dubious penetration and often, reputation, of organized banking made legal tender the inimitable marker of possession. Even as virtual transactions became normal, earlier cheque and now digital, the role of raw lucre evolved as illegitimate or undeclared earnings, truly a  timeless motivation.

But the greatest contribution to this obsession for cash has been popular culture, endowing it with a certain unpredictable romance. The enigmatic leather briefcase, stuffed like a Mumbai local, ably represented the transition of morals, depicted in cinema and replicated in life. It was a telling tipping point in Don and an edgy shift of power in Deewar, a dramatic pattern emulated relentlessly in subsequent narratives. Although cash was always dangerously fleeting, its throbbing presence was forever mired by its dire absence, through theft, dishonor, or a destiny going astray.

To add further substance, religion and customs played their roles ably, both in meaning and transaction. Most temples have an organised cash culture, followed sincerely by demanding devotees, as an entry pass to win celestial attention. To bless the newborn or currently wedded, the finely manicured envelope containing crunchy currency is much regarded, way above porcelain tea sets or lifeless gift cheques. It creates a voracious sense of anticipation and the revelation of content can lead to both delight or fury, and each of us can endorse this sentiment.

Most recently, as multiple tales of organised corruption were revealed by hungry media, the symbolism of cash heists became even more apparent. The signature mnemonic of the ex-TMC minister's purported crimes was that frenetic pileup of hardened tender, reminiscent of Uttam Kumar's iconic dream sequence in Ray's 'Nayak'.

Read more
https://www.newsdrum.in/analysis/why-do-indians-love-the-sight-of-cash-69153.html