Austria
About 7 500 additional beds from facilities other than hospitals (such as rehabilitation facilities) and another 1 735 regular beds have
been made available for COVID‑19 treatment.

Bulgaria
Private hospitals provided equipment and capacity. Armed forces prepared camp beds and mobile facilities for COVID‑19 treatment.

Finland
Conversion of operation wards and recovery areas into ICUs. Helsinki University Central Hospital dedicated one of its buildings to
COVID‑19 patients.

Germany
In many hospitals, capacities shifted from planned and elective procedures to increase general and ICU bed capacity. Non-medical
facilities (e.g. rehabilitation facilities, hotels, public halls) transformed into ICUs. Overall, the number of ICU beds increased by about
12 000.

Hungary
Construction of emergency hospital and 4 major hospitals outside of Budapest dedicated to COVID‑19 patients. A 330‑bed capacity
temporary facility created in Budapest in the exhibition buildings of Hungexpo (by 16 March). A military camp hospital was also built
(by 24 March).

Luxembourg
Inter-country support (some patients in overburdened hospitals in the east of France transferred to Luxembourg), creation of military
field hospital, increased bed capacity in ICU and non-ICU hospital facilities, increased number of ventilation equipment and CT
scans.

Poland
22 hospitals transformed into single-infection hospitals. Non-COVID‑19 patients moved to alternative facilities nearby. The Ministry of Health estimates approximately 10 000 beds were available in these designated single-infection hospitals.

Spain
16 additional temporary hospitals created with the help of the Armed Forces. All ICU beds from private hospitals made available to
treat COVID‑19 patients. Three speed trains converted to transfer 24 critical patients to ICUs.

United Kingdom
New temporary hospitals built in seven locations to provide additional intensive care unit capacity (for example 500 beds in the
London Nightingale hospital). New hospital discharge criteria introduced that freed up around 33 000 beds (England).