New studies suggest that the political divide in the US may also be creating a widening gap in death rates between those on opposite sides. For the study, researchers at Brigham and Women's Hospital (BWH) in Boston analyzed death rates and federal and state election data for all U.S. counties from 2001 to 2019.

During that time, death rates in Democratic counties dropped 22% (from 850 deaths to 664 deaths per 100,000 people), compared with an 11% decline (from 867 to 771 deaths per 100,000) in Republican counties.

Democratic counties had a tremendous decline in death rates for most common causes of death, including heart disease, cancer, chronic lower respiratory tract diseases, diabetes, influenza and pneumonia, and kidney disease.

When the team focused on race they would similarly decline in death rates among black and Hispanic people in both the counties but white people in Republican counties had much smaller decreases than those in democratic. 

That resulted in a nearly fourfold rise in the "mortality gap" between white people in Republican versus Democratic counties during the study period.

"In an ideal world, politics and health would be independent of each other and it wouldn't matter whether one lives in an area that voted for one party or another," said study corresponding author Dr Haider Warraich, from the hospital's division of cardiovascular medicine.

"But that is no longer the case. From our data, we can see that the risk of premature death is higher for people living in a county that voted Republican," Warraich added in a BWH news release.

The widening gap in death rates may indicate the impact of politics on health policies. It is noteworthy that more democratic states than Republican states adopted Medicaid expansion, which broadened health insurance coverage to low-income people.

The investigators have also pointed out that the study period ended before the start of the COVID-19 pandemic which may have had an even more serious impact on the mortality gap between Republican and Democratic counties.

Source: US News