Donald Trump is back in action. The former US President held his first rally in 2022 in Florence, Arizona, repeating a flurry of unfounded claims, including that the 2020 US election was a fraud. “I ran twice and we won twice and we did better the second time. We did much better the second time,” Mr Trump said in the rally. He also dismissed concerns against his supporters for the attempted January 6, 2021 insurrection at the US Capitol Hill.   

Thousands of his loyalist fans congregated in the rural area of Arizona applauding him for every lie and emotional appeals. Fact checkers didn’t find it difficult to separate fact from fiction.

The latest claim he made was that the health authorities are keeping aside “lifesaving therapeutics” like vaccines for coloured people to discriminate against the white. He distorted the fact on a New York policy that allows Hispanics, Blacks and Indigenous Indians to get easier access to some new antiviral medications—which are in short supply—because some of them are more likely to get severely ill from Covid due to longstanding social inequities. But he glossed over the fact that deserving white people haven’t been denied required Covid care.

He also made provocative claims about Democratic party’s stand on abortion and transgender issue. He misrepresented former Virginia governor Ralph Northam’s aim to ease restrictions on third trimester abortion in 2019, to claim that for Democrats it’s just fine to get “babies killed after birth”.  

He also made a number of references to transgender people, including a claim that Democrats say “men and women, women are women.” His comments reflect his attitude towards transgender rights which the Biden administration says is discriminatory. Trump’s administration had banned transgender people from joining US military services, which the Biden administration overturned.  

READ MORE: https://www.pbs.org/newshour/politics/ap-fact-check-trump-seeds-race-animus-with-covid-falsehood

https://www.timesofisrael.com/at-arizona-rally-trump-stirs-racial-tensions-repeats-claim-of-stolen-election/

https://www.nytimes.com/2022/01/16/us/politics/fact-check-trump-arizona-rally.html