Alzheimer is a growing concern and the treatment for it have been always on a search. Recently in a study published in Nature Neuroscience, the scientists stated about a new screening platform for characterising genes that regulates specific microbial functions that could contribute tl Alzheimer’s disease (AD). 
By characterizing the regulatory genes that causes mito move from a healthy state tl a diseased state, like how in the brains of an individual with AD and other neurodegenerative conditions, this could help therapeutics to target the genes or proteins encoded by these genes. 
The role of microglia 
AD is a con ern and it is a form of dementia that accounts for 60 to 80% of all dementia cases. Even after there have been advance in medical sciences, there is still no proper and effective treatments for this neurodegenerative disease. 
One of the hallmarks of AD is that the accumulation of the misfolded beta-amyloid protein clumps or plaques are the ones. There have been a wide range of atudy conducted focusing on the mutations that could lead to abnormal processing of the beta-amyloid protein and its accumulation. 
But these treatments targeting pathways involved in the processing of beta-amyloid did not succeed. 
The researchers have also discovered that those  individuals with AD do not show mutations in the genes that's associated with accumulation of the amyloid protein. In contrast the evidence received recently have suggested that individuals with AD often shows defects in the clearance or removal of misfolded beta-amyloid. 
This could be due to the dysfunction of microglia, which are primary cells in the brain  the functions of microglia is phagocytosis, it is a process involving ingestion of fear cells, pathogens and misfolded proteins to facilitate their removal. 
There have been many evidences that shows the ability kf microgila to remove the beta-amyloid protein that could be impaired in AD. Microglia also contributes to the development of AD by secreting inflammatory proteins and causing excessive removal of neurons and synapses, tha association between neurons allows them to "communicate".
Sources - Medical News Today