In the first leg quarter final matches, 6 former champions clashed and only 1 team had a convincing win, Liverpool over Benefica (3-1).



Atletico Madrid vs Manchester City

13 April midnight (12.30 am, 14 April)


Champions of England vs champions of Spain. Both yet to win a Champions league trophy. Atletico Madrid lost the final 3 times while Man City once. This could be the last season of 2 great managers with the clubs: Diogo Simeone and Pep Guardiola. Both taking their respective clubs to new heights. Man City has got a tender lead of 1 goal in the first leg, which team and fans would have wished to be minimum 2.





Real Madrid vs Chelsea

12 April midnight (12.30 am, 13 April)


Benzema's brilliance and Mendy's unusual mistake made the difference between these two teams. In recent years, Chelsea had an upper hand over Real Madrid. They have taken 20 shots and kept more ball possession against record champions league winners (13 times). Young Chelsea star Mason Mount said after the match, "every game is a final now. We have a massive mountain to climb but we are Chelsea and if there is a team that can do it, it is us. We will give it everything as we have that hunger and desire to really accomplish something". 


Tuchel must be planning to move up with a comeback win against former Chelsea coach master craftsman Ancelotti's side. 




Bayern Munich vs Villarreal

12 April midnight (12.30 am, 13 April)


Wounded Beast ! That will be Bayern Munich in the second leg. They would be trying to thrash Villarreal at home. They won't be showing any mercy. Villarreal don't have much legacy to say in the champions league as they face 11 time finalists and 6 time champions Bayern. Their best performance was in the semi final in the 2005-06 season. But, they were Europa league champions in 2020-21. That was their first major title ever. 


This is the Champions League in its best shape! This is what fans expect from the Champions league! And this is why people love the Champions league!