By Prema Sridevi
For over 28 months, India and China were locked in a standoff in eastern Ladakh, but on Thursday, both countries announced that their frontline troops would start disengagement from Patrol Point-15 at the Gogra-Hot Springs area in eastern Ladakh. The disengagement meant that the troops would move back to their rear positions and dismantle their temporary infrastructure across the region. The breakthrough came after the 16th round of military discussions between the two sides. What does this disengagement exercise mean for India and China? Can India trust a belligerent China? Let’s UnBreak this news! 
On Thursday, the Ministry of Defence in India issued a joint statement that stated: “as per the consensus reached in the 16th round of the India-China Corps Commander Level Meeting, the Indian and Chinese troops in the area of Gogra-Hot Springs (Patrol Point-15) have begun to disengage in a coordinated and planned way, which is conducive to the peace and tranquillity in the border areas.” 
In a separate statement, the Ministry of External Affairs added that all temporary structures and other allied infrastructure created in the area by both sides would be dismantled and mutually verified. The landforms in the area will be restored to the pre-stand-off period by both sides. 
Since the Sino-Indian war of 1962, India and China have witnessed numerous border skirmishes. But the tensions escalated between the two countries in 2019 after India revoked the special status of Jammu and Kashmir. Additionally, India passed the Jammu and Kashmir Reorganisation Act of 2019 and divided the state of Jammu and Kashmir into two union territories – the Union Territory of Jammu and Kashmir and the Union Territory of Ladakh. Immediately after that, China started a troop buildup in Ladakh. In June 2020, the tension peaked when India and China got involved in a violent clash at Ladakh’s Galwan valley in which 20 Indian soldiers and an unknown number of Chinese soldiers were killed.
While the two countries are looking at disengagement from Patrol Point-15 at the Gogra-Hot Springs area in eastern Ladakh, India has consistently accused China of showing its aggression across the borders. 
Video link: https://youtu.be/TDmoooTu3gI
Read more: https://theprobe.in/disengagement-can-india-trust-a-belligerent-china-unbreak-the-news-with-prema-sridevi/