The Number of wealthy Americans applying for foreign residency and citizenship has increased in the recent years as many business owners and celebrities considered it as a plan b for their families as per the insider
"We see these programs as an insurance policy," Ezzedeen Soleiman, a managing partner at Latitude Residency & Citizenship, said. "We've had some billionaires approach us and ask what's the best place to live if there's a climate catastrophe, or if there's another storm or another global pandemic."


Golden passports are a trend as many countries offer this to affluent foreigners to receive citizenship or residency in return for investing in the country. according to Forbes. the most expensive programs range from $1.1 million in Malta to $9.5 million in Austria, 

Latitude, a company which leads high-net-worth investors around the world through the application process, said US inquiries have increased 300% between 2019 and 2021. Henley & Partners, one of the world's largest citizenship brokers, said deals to American nationals increased by 327% between 2019 and 2020 and an additional 10% in 2021.

The main issues that concern Americans are COVID-19, climate change, cryptocurrency, and conflict.
The recent surge in American applicants started during the Trump administration and escalated during pandemic lockdowns according to the insider 

Among the countries, Portugal stands as a priority. Portugal's five-year residence permit — allows visa-free travel to 26 countries in the European Union.

Portugal's "golden visa" requires the least investment of slightly over $200,000 and an average stay of seven days a year in Portugal. When the permit expires, residents can then apply for full-time citizenship, which can take an additional three years.

Many affluent Americans fear the administration rising taxes including billionaire tasks and pandemics and look upon Plan B for their families. Here when wars leave people homeless and beg for acceptance in a foreign land some people are buying off citizenship! Ways of the world!