While coronavirus cases are receding across the world, its aftermath is taking shape at both physical and mental levels. A new study reveals that a person going through phases of anxiety, depression, and loneliness before being infected by coronavirus has a much stronger chance of developing long Covid than those who have good mental health.
The study conducted by researchers at the Harvard TH Chan School of Public Health found that psychological distress before Covid-19 infection is associated with an increased risk of long Covid and it was independent of smoking, asthma, and other health behaviors or physical health conditions.
“We were surprised by how strongly psychological distress before a Covid-19 infection was associated with an increased risk of long Covid. Distress was more strongly associated with developing long Covid than physical health risk factors such as obesity, asthma, and hypertension,” Siwen Wang, a researcher in the Department of Nutrition at Harvard Chan School, and lead author of the study said. 
WHAT IS LONG COVID?
Long Covid in the simplest terms refers to the long-term effects of the SARS-CoV-2, which causes coronavirus, on the body. According to the US-based Centre for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), it includes a wide range of ongoing health problems, which can last for days, weeks, and even months after you are diagnosed Covid negative.
HOW IS LONG COVID RELATED TO MENTAL HEALTH?
The study was conducted among 54,000 people in April 2020, who were asked about their psychological distresses at the beginning of the research. Over the next year, 3000 participants became Covid positive and were then asked about symptoms and symptom duration.
Analysis of the data revealed that mental distress before Covid-19 infection, including depression, anxiety, worry, perceived stress, and loneliness, was associated with a 32-46 per cent increased risk of long Covid. Mental well-being in the past has been associated with other diseases as well. It is associated with greater severity and longer duration of symptoms in influenza.
Read more - https://www.indiatoday.in/science/story/anxiety-depression-loneliness-could-increase-risk-of-long-covid-2001928-2022-09-19