International Community in Afghanistan Continues..

Similarly, the United Kingdom Mission to the UN wrote:
… the United Kingdom has military assets engaged in operations against targets we know to be involved in the operation of terror against the US of America, the United Kingdom and other countries around the world, as part of an international effort. 

These forces have now been employed in exercise of the inherent right of the individual and collective self-defence, recognized in Article 51, following the terrorist outrage of 11 September, to avert the continuing threat of attacks from the same source.

There is also a debate on the question of whether terrorist acts fall outside the scope of what one would normally consider to be an act of state aggression or war. The question of whether the terrorist attacks of 9/11 constituted an “armed attack” within the meaning of article 51 is not as simple as it might seem at the first instance. 

The first consideration is whether a “terrorist attack” is an armed attack in the abstract sense, that is, whether terrorist conduct has the type of aggressive elements that constitute an armed attack. The second question is whether and how a terrorist attack by a non-state actor (a terrorist organization, namely the Al–Qaeda) constitutes an “armed attack” for the purpose of article 51.

In the context of 9/11, it is clear that the US considered itself to have been subject to an armed attack. As seen from article 51, notice from Ambassador Negroponte, the US perceived the attacks of 9/11 as constituting armed attacks against it. US President, Bush had earlier referred, in his address to the Joint Session of Congress after 9/11, to the attacks as an “act of war.” He referred to “a collection of loosely affiliated terrorist organizations known as “Al-Qaeda” as having attacked the US and said, They are the same murderers indicted for bombing American embassies in Tanzania and Kenya, and responsible for bombing the USS Cole in Yemen in 2000..

To be continued...