Without doubt one of the most successful bands in the progressive rock scene, Tool are a band that is extremely well known in the rock and metal circles due to each member of the band essentially being a virtuoso in their fields. 
So as far as the individual musical abilities or technical complexity of their music goes, Tool’s talent is not in question. The band is known for their rhythmic changes, grooves, hypnotizing atmosphere, polyrhythms etc.
But for all of their musical talent, Tool is also one of the most repetitive sounding bands. That may sound strange for each and every one of Tool’s songs is different, yet when it comes to composition Tool have the tendency to sound exactly the same.
They do indeed have diversity and have a variety of songs, but at the same time they have not broken any new ground, sounding more or less the same throughout most of their catalogue. Tool did initially change evolving from a progressive rock influenced psychedelic alternative metal band in the 90s to more of a proper progressive metal/progressive rock band with a psychedelic approach.
But since then, the band has hardly changed not sounding particularly different, as such it is hard to see why Tool are considered the overlords of music. They have a super distinct sound that they created and quite a refined catalogue with some great songs within it. No band has managed to sound like them so that speaks to musical abilities and creativity of Tool, but at the same the fact no matter what they do, they essentially sound exactly the same is also not a good sign.
Putting Tool in words is indeed complicated, from Opiate to Undertow, and then to Ænima, the band has witnessed subtle to some dramatic change. There was also quite a bit of change in Lateralus, but from 10,000 Years the band has stagnated with Fear Innoculum being a pretty average album. 
Plus to top it all up, Tool has one of the worst fan bases in history. So overall, Tool is undoubtedly a talent powerhouse possessing haven written some highly original songs, but they’re also overrated.