By Shailesh Khanduri

With dwindling food stocks across the world amid the Russia-Ukraine war, India banned the export of wheat because of record-high domestic inflation and an intense heatwave, which destroyed the crop in many places.

The decision has evoked reactions from politicians and world leaders, many requesting and urging India to rethink its wheat export ban.

Speaking at Globsec 2022 Bratislava forum, Indian External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar revealed that the ban was imposed in order to prevent diversion to high-income countries and to not give those involved in speculative trade open access to the Indian market.

Jaishankar said India has been exporting wheat to several countries. "But what we then saw was a kind of run on our wheat, a large part of it done by international traders based out of Singapore and, maybe to some degree, Dubai and the result was the low-income countries, many of whom were our traditional buyers like neighbours Bangladesh, Sri Lanka and Nepal, the Gulf buys regularly Yemen Sudan, low-income buyers were being squeezed out," he said.

Jaishankar said the decision was required to not give the speculators open access to the Indian market so that Indian customers and the least developing countries get the supplies.

He said India is still open to supplying wheat to any deserving country.

"What happened with the vaccines, we do not want to let happen the same with the wheat. Rich got vaccinated and the poor were left to God," said Jaishankar.

The government's decision to ban wheat exports will help in crushing attempts by certain foreign players to hoard Indian wheat for price manipulation in global markets, according to sources.

With this move, they said, India wants to ensure fair and proper use of its wheat stocks to address global needs, particularly of the more needy countries.

Read the full story here:- https://www.newsdrum.in/analysis/wheat-export-amid-global-food-nationalism-how-indias-wheat-export-ban-is-different-39783.html