At Gamescom 2022  Everstone Studios unveiled their new open-world epic ‘Where Winds Meet’. An open world action RPG ‘Where The Winds Meet’ is set during the final days of the Five Dynasties and Ten Kingdoms era, a period from 907 to 979 AD that saw political upheaval and conflict as rival states faced off for supremacy, and which ultimately led to the beginning of the Song dynasty. 
Apart from being steeped in Chinese history and mythology, the game also features an awesome martial arts combat system and sword fighting skills which the player will need to survive the onslaught of countless foes. In this hostile world, the players must choose between either being an honourable moral fighter who battles to protect the innocent and fight for justice, or, live only for themselves and incite further chaos and despair seeping into the land.
Combat in the game features fast-paced Wuxia-style battles, where you can counter enemy blows, use Tai Chi to deflect/parry attacks or use acrobatics to go for a multi angular approach. Apart from martial arts, players can also use ranged weapons, thus allowing them to diversify and use a mixture of several different abilities to defeat enemies.
The world of ‘Where Winds Meet’ is also home to different wild animals and supernatural creatures that will require unique approaches to battle. The martial arts skills at player disposal can also be used to explore the vast world by scaling walls, leaping across rooftops, and sprinting across waves. And if you get tired of running, you will also have access to a horse who can carry you across the land with great speed.
A core component of ‘Where Winds Meet’, the game features a deep jobs system, allowing players to assume various identities and occupations. This includes becoming a doctor, an orator, architect, bodyguard, assassin, ferryman etc. This freedom allows the game to become an immersing and real experience for the player. The emphasis on player freedom extends to mission structure, allowing missions to be ended in different ways leading to differing results.  Certainly an ambitious project laden with interesting ideas and potential for a new gaming studio.