The Congress seems to have carefully drafted its proposal regarding the implementation of the 'one family, one ticket' norm. 

The 'one family, one ticket' norm has never been honoured so far and so is the case with the one person, one post' policy. 

Now, both the rules are back on the Congress party's list of suggestions being discussed at its ongoing three-day 'Chintan Shivir (brainstorming session)' at Udaipur in Rajasthan. 

The rule might be renewed at the session but the big question is whether it will apply to the Gandhi family. 

Both Congress president Sonia Gandhi and her son Rahul are Lok Sabha members from Rae Bareli (Uttar Pradesh) and Wayanad (Kerala) respectively. 

If Sonia Gandhi decides against contesting the 2024 Lok Sabha elections due to health conditions, there is a strong possibility that her daughter and Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra might be fielded from Rae Bareli. 

And Rahul Gandhi is unlikely to abandon Wayanad for the time being. 

So, here's the catch. The new proposal suggests that the 'one family, one ticket' rule will not apply to those who have been actively working for the party for the past five years. That leaves the Gandhi family out of the ambit of the proposed rule. 

This also means that Priyanka Gandhi is likely to contest the 2024 Lok Sabha elections from Rae Bareli in place of her mother. 

Not only the Gandhi family, the other powerful families too will benefit from this clause. 

Coming to the 'one person, one post' policy, this norm has been talked about for years in the Congress but never implemented. It was veteran leader AK Antony who first mooted the proposal in 1999. Since then, it has only remained in paper.

We still don't know whether these suggestions will be accepted by the party or not. These will be put before the Congress Working Committee (CWC), the highest decision-making body of the party, on the last day of the session for the final approval. 

Once approved, these will become the norm to be followed by the party with the caveat that the Congress president has the final say on such matters.