Communication is the act of giving, receiving, and sharing information - in other words, talking or writing, and listening or reading. Good communicators listen carefully, speak or write clearly, and respect different opinions.

Strong communication skills can help kids interact both face-to-face and in the online world. Texting, chatting, and posting responsibly depends on understanding how words and images affect others. You can help kids develop their communication abilities by teaching them to use social media responsibly, modeling positive communication, and watching movies and TV shows that emphasize the value of healthy communication.
IMPORTANT TIPS FOR BETTER COMMUNICATION:
1)NEVER LOOSE FOCUS ON YOUR TARGET POINT OF THE TALK
2)BE STRAIGHT TO THE POINT AND CLEAR
3)MAKE SURE TO AVOID HINDRANCES
4)HAND GESTURE AND BODY POSTURE MUST BE CORRECT AND CONFIDENT 
5)ALWAYS MAKE SURE TO LISTEN FIRST TO MAKE THE CONVERSATION ATTENTIVE ON BOTH POINTS
Ways to show confidence while communicating:
It takes confidence to share your ideas in the workplace, especially if your goal is to influence and impress colleagues outside your immediate team, including those who have seniority. To be confident when communicating with your boss, a senior executive or a prospective customer you have to be clear on your views. The more clarity you have going into a conversation the more your ideas will be received with thoughtful interest.



2. Be prepared.

You cannot weaken once you go in for the kill and express your ideas or opinions. Get right to the point. Clarity and directness give you power and authority, especially when you're trying to communicate with higher level executives. State your ideas with a bold but not obnoxious clarity.

Never lead with an apology or any type of excuse which shows insecurity. Start your communication with a strong, confident “I” statement backed up with evidence in support of the validity of your ideas or opinions. Evidence or research will help you not to falter because you have reliable information to reference if you are called upon to prove yourself. Each time your view is challenged it gives you an opportunity to reaffirm the validity of your ideas. View these challenges not as rejections, but as welcomed opportunities.



3. Stick to your guns.