By Shivaji Dasgupta
Kolkata: As the Big B turns 80 today, there is truthfully precious little to write afresh about his bigness. Although, I increasingly feel that his second innings as a wise old man overshadows the iconic magnetism of the angry young man. 
What helps this argument slightly further is the holistic destruction of his self-worth as well as net worth as his 20th-century career crumbled, propelled by some terrible productions and the fiasco of ABCL. 
The latter led to abject financial ruin and it was widely predicted that not just his professional career but his existence at large was on the verge of conclusion.
An inadvertent rescue mission orchestrated by KBC led to a resurgence of his fortunes in every sense, and he smartly rebooted himself in Hollywood mode, embracing and not denying the territorial realities of age. 
Now, this is exceptional from a Bollywood perspective definitely, as no one else has ever been able to stage such a colossal comeback, curating a compelling line extension. 
Rajesh Khanna flopped miserably in spite of sporadic bursts like Avtaar while Dev Anand’s attempts to turn Benjamin Button were comical and tragic in tandem.
Madhuri Dixit has been trying gamely for many years now while most of her peers chose gracious retirement instead of pursuing the reinvention game. 
Even RD Burman, after his rejection, never quite succeeded in regaining his form, and this pattern is true for most characters of the industry. 
Only the late Sridevi and Rishi Kapoor seemed to be deftly managing a suitable transition but the highest forces had other plans, and Shahrukh Khan is going through the horrors as we speak.
But back to Big B as he is the birthday boy, and to refocus on his astonishing comeback, worthy of HBR case study on brands.
What happened fortuitously in KBC was the opportunity to perform as himself and not an enforced youngster as dictated by myopic directors, hungry for replication of nostalgic stereotypes. 
To read more https://www.newsdrum.in/analysis/big-b-at-80-does-amitabh-bachchans-second-innings-define-his-unique-legacy-100582.html