The Congress is weak and the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) has succeeded in creating a noise in Punjab is how a colleague summarised his assessment of the assembly elections on his return from the state. 

He went on to say that there was a noise for the AAP in 2017 too but the Congress was strong then that enabled it to regain power from the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD)-Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) combine after 10 years.

The AAP has claimed that there is a yearning for change in its favour but the Congress is hoping that there will be a repeat of 2017 when it comfortably won the elections. 

The grand old party is also banking on the Dalit consolidation due to it's move to replace Captain Amarinder Singh with Charanjit Singh Channi five months ago. 

But in Punjab so far, the Dalits have never voted as a bloc and then there are Deras (socio-religious institutions that wield enormous political influence in Punjab, Haryana and Delhi). 

A section of Jat Sikhs is upset with the Congress for appointing Channi as Amarinder's replacement. He is the first Dalit chief minister of Punjab. 

While the Congress considers the AAP it's main challenger, the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD)-Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) alliance is hoping to regain some of it's lost ground and the BJP-Amarinder combine is banking on the Hindu consolidation. 

In 2017, the AAP had fared better in Malwa than Majha and Doaba regions. Malwa has 69 of the 117 constituencies while Majha and Doaba account for 25 and 23 seats respectively. 

However, AAP convenor and Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal is treading cautiously this time to ensure that there isn't a repeat of 2017.

On the other hand, the Congress is hit by infighting and the rebel factor. After Rahul Gandhi announced Channi as the face of the party, state Congress president Navjot Singh Sidhu is on a warpath. His cryptic tweets and subtle statements against Channi and the visible anguish for not being named the CM candidate could prove damaging for the party in the end. 