The Netherlands is known for building and molding world-class talents. Many legends like Johan Cyruff, Ronald Koeman, Virgil Van Dijk, Edwin Van Der Sar, and many other legends came through the ranks. There are attackers who are good at turnovers, and there are defenders who are better at carrying the ball with their feet than most of the other midfielders in the other leagues. One such upcoming center-back comes to mind who is trying to make his name into the Dutch folklore like Virgil Van Dijk, Matthijs De Ligt and his name is Jurriën Timber.


Jurriën Timber and his brother Quinten Timber started out their careers in Jong Ajax. The first team manager Erik Ten Hag was impressed with Jurrien’s performance, and he snapped him to the first team, while his brother, unable to make the mark was sold off to FC Utrecht. 


The Dutch International plays as a center back, but he can also play as a full-back if the manager asks for him.

Jurriën Timber has emerged as the hot prospect that everyone is talking about. 


Passing Stats


The Ajax International is smooth with the ball, as he ranks 75.73/90 in passing accuracy and 80.43 in the number of passes he had attempted. His passing range to the middle third and progressive passes is at 98 and 99 percentile respectively. Timber can slot seamlessly into any top team which is looking to build up from the back. 


His positional sense and the team’s advanced positioning allows him to have a great contribution to their attack. He supplies to the advanced or threatening areas 70.56 ground passes per 90. Due to his lack of height, their manager Ten Hag smartly slots him into right-back(it is one of the reasons why Manchester United should appoint Ten Hag as their new manager).  


He can easily hold onto the ball and deliver it to the advanced areas and has a passing range that allows him to make combinations with his teammates and exploit spaces. The only reason for him not being able to fully succeed in this position is his hesitancy to cross the ball.