The record-breaking legislative attacks lead by Republicans with at least 53 bills attempting to ban transgender youth athletes right to play sports this year, are a reproduction of bio-essentialist hierarchies through a politics that invites the policing and surveillance of all bodies.

Protecting ‘women’s sports’ as these bills claim to do, would mean creating equitable access for women and femme folks with different lived experiences to participate and compete. But these bills are gatekeeping sports by attempting to let legislation define ‘womanhood’ rather than centering women’s narratives on what womanhood means to them.

There is no equity if gender is defined by patriarchal systems that are designed to restrict everyone, regardless of their gender identity. There is no equity if women who are trans are excluded.

The harm created by these bills extends far beyond the field – 85 percent of transgender and nonbinary youth in a poll, said their mental health was negatively impacted by last year’s record-breaking legislative attacks on their identities.

"These results underscore how recent politics and ongoing crises facing the globe can have a real, negative impact on LGBTQ young people, a group consistently found to be at significantly increased risk for depression, anxiety and attempting suicide because of how they are mistreated…" Trevor Project CEO, Amit Paley said in a statement.

More than half of trans and nonbinary youth were at risk of suicide in the past year, and the ability to participate fully in school is critical for student-wellbeing with 56 percent of LGBTQ team members report feeling a positive sense of belonging in school.

These legislative attacks claim that women who are trans are not who they say they are, adding to the harmful narratives feeding cisgender-heterosexual insecurities, which leads to violence against trans women – at least 375 trans and gender-diverse people were reported murdered last year, most of whom are Black, Brown and Latinx women, and femme folks at intersecting marginalized identities.

As long as we continue practicing a binary system to classify people, toxic masculinity and patriarchal femininity will continue to inform how we treat each other, regardless of our genders.