In one of the weirdest gaming crossovers, Assassin’s Creed will be coming to PUBG Battlegrounds in August. "When the tales of the Animus become the realities of the battlegrounds, players will have the chance to acquire Assassin’s Creed-themed in-game items, see Abstergo Industries introduced to the world of PUBG: Battlegrounds, and participate in a series of exclusive events to earn Assassin’s Creed-themed crate tickets," said Krafton via a press release.
 
Deemed "a multi-game collaboration that will bring the world of Assassin’s Creed to both PUBG: Battlegrounds and New State Mobile this August", the upcoming content  will be available to both PC/console  and the mobile versions. Between August 17 and September 22 PUBG: Battlegrounds players will be able to acquire two sets of themed costumes, two themed bag skins, a parachute skin, an emote, a gun charm, and two sets of spray items. Furthermore, resources and props based on Assassin's Creed will start appearing all over the Haven map as well.
 
Abstergo Industries has taken over one of the map's sites and is hiding an Animus machine.  Players will also come across ledges where they can take a Leap of Faith, the most prominent feature of all Assassin’s Creed games. As for New State Mobile, Assassin's Creed themed cosmetics will be up for grabs only between August 18 and September 21. These will include themed skins modeled after Ezio and Shay, an upgradeable SIG-MCX skin, two themed vehicle skins, a parachute skin, and a wappen.
 
PUBG: Battlegrounds recently unveiled its new map since the battle royale went free to play at the start of the year. Called Deston, the developers at Krafton described the map."The wait is over. Our ninth new map we’ve been teasing about all this time is finally here this update." said Krafton in a blog update.
 
"Welcome to the 8x8km near-future and ravaged world: DESTON!
"Deston (formerly known as Codename: Kiki) presents you diverse biomes – a flooded downtown embracing one of the tallest skyscrapers you’ve ever seen in PUBG: Battlegrounds, a murky swamp, clear coasts, beautiful mountains, and unexplored islands."
 
 