Arsenal paid around £34m to secure the services of young Portuguese midfielder Fabio Vieira. The player had enjoyed a breakthrough season for FC Porto.
However, the hype around his name seemed to be subdued compared to his fellow Porto teammates who also departed. Luis Diaz of course moved to Liverpool in January and central midfielder Vitinha departed to PSG.
Despite this, fans of Porto were incredibly frustrated to be losing Vieira, many talking very highly of the talent of the young player. Vieira had not played regularly at the start of last season, but had made big impacts off the bench. Upon Diaz's departure, Vieira found his place in the starting XI open.
In just over 1300 league minutes, he put up an impressive 6 goals and an even more impressive 14 assists. Incredibly, his minutes per goal/assist rate stood at 66 minutes. The best rate in Europe.
Vieira has started this season for Arsenal, in a similar kind of fashion. In 275 minutes this season, including both the Premier League and Europa League, Vieira has already registered 2 goals and 1 assist.
His first goal for the club was a brilliant strike in the Premier League, smashing in off the post from around 30 yards. His assist, came on Thursday in the Europa League. A perfectly weighted cross found the head of Rob Holding, who only needed to direct it towards the bottom corner.
His goal that night was on a platter, set up by Gabriel Jesus following a mesmerising run by the Brazilian. The goal speaks of Vieira's hunger for goal involvements however. The Portuguese is always looking to get in the box to be involved, and has phenomenal striking technique.
Vieira offers a different option to club captain and usual number 10, Martin Odegaard. Odegaard offers composure, involvement and ingenious in his passing. However, he has sometimes been criticised for his lack of contribution in the final third. Vieira, offers almost the opposite. He sometimes isn't as involved, but can always be counted on to find himself with a chance in the box and often, he'll score.
Both will be very important to Arsenal going forward.