Beginning with class 9 onwards, schools in Delhi have finally reopened from today, February 7.  Come February 14, all classes from nursery onwards will also be allowed to attend in-person classes. Delhi Deputy Chief Minister and Education Minister Manish Sisodia visited the Sarvodaya Kanya Vidyalaya to meet happy faces. Most of the students he spoke to were enthusiastic about coming back to the classroom even though the fear of Covid lurked in the back of their minds. One student of class 9, Sneha broke down with sheer relief at being able to be back in the class in the presence of education minister Manish Sisodia.
With a partially blind father and a barely functional phone, it was difficult for her to cope with her studies. Wiping off her tears, Sneha said, “we had a problem regarding phones, I had great difficulty in trying to manage, my father is partially blind and therefore could not support me much".

Schools will run in the hybrid mode even now and there is no cap of the 50 per cent capacity of each classroom, however, parents’ consent is still mandatory in Delhi. News18 ‘s Rupashree Nanda caught up with Delhi Deputy Chief Minister and Education Minister, Manish Sisodia on the road ahead.

Manish Sisodia: I have full confidence in the kids and also in the teachers. This is because we have seen that last time when schools were reopened, Covid protocols were followed more diligently here than in marketplaces. Especially, kids followed every protocol that was put in place. Now, when schools have reopened after such a long time, there is a conviction among both students and teachers that protocol will be followed.

>Manish Sisodia: In Delhi, the vaccination drive has been conducted with speed. After the adult population, a great percentage of kids have also been vaccinated. In government schools, 95 per cent of kids have been vaccinated. In private schools, around 50 per cent of kids have been vaccinated. In government and private schools,almost 100 per cent of the school staff has been vaccinated and we have made this rule that only those teachers.

Read more- https://www.news18.com/amp/news/education-career/95-of-kids-in-govt-schools-vaccinated-their-emotional-health-a-challenge-sisodia-4743836.html