Jonathan Christian David is a Canadian professional, who plays for Lille. David joined Gent in 2018, which was his professional debut. 2 years later he joined Lille in France and he won Ligue 1 and Trophee Des Champions. He plays for the Canadian National team.

He is a centre-forward, but he can also play as second striker and in the attacking midfield position.

In his first season for Lille, he had scored 13 goals already and had an xG of 10.19. He had accumulated 0.19 xG/shots.

In his second season he has scored 13 goals and has an xG of 11.7 and xG/shot of 0.2.

He ranks high on shots on target % per 90 with him ranking 53.7% and 97 percentile.

He had a  total of 2854 passes, out of which 1332 passes were successful and 1522 passes were attempted/unsuccessful


He has 2 assists to his name and he has made 7 passes which he made, which led to shots on goal and 71 progressive passes. 

Coming to his defensive aspects, he has applied pressure 162 times in trying to dispossess opponents, who were carrying, receiving, or in possession of the ball. Out of which he had won 52 times. He had most pressures in the defensive third, with him dispossessing players 86 times.

From the above dashboard, we can see that he ranks low on assists and progressive passes. However, he needs to work on his passes to the final third. He ranks decent in defensive attributes, with him ranking 85 percentile in number of dribblers he tackled and 93 percentile in pressures which he applied.


A host of clubs are after him including Liverpool, Arsenal and Manchester City who are eyeing him as potential Erling Haaland’s replacement, if they are unable to get him. City desperately need a striker after missing out on Harry Kane. David could be a cheaper alternative to Haaland. David’s style and skills suit them and they have more financial muscle than other English clubs. David also wants a move in the summer. It will be a summer to look forward to.


Link for the article:

 https://link.medium.com/TULmWkZBoob