Civil society groups in Myanmar are riled up after United Nations Special Envoy to Myanmar, Noeleen Heyzer, suggested in a television news interview that “the Myanmar military junta cannot be ignored and left out of any upcoming peace process.” In the interview,  Heyzer on went to say that finding “commonalities” was important and there was “need to negotiate what this power sharing could look like.” (https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=aOkTieqKfrI)

In a joint statement, 247 civil society organizations of Myanmar “rejected” the envoy’s suggestion saying that there was no place for the “terrorist military junta” in the future government formation which should be civilian driven. (https://www.mizzima.com/article/un-envoy-regrets-misunderstanding-over-myanmar-junta-power-sharing-suggestion)

It has year since Myanmar’s army chief Min Aung Hlaing swept into power by deposing the democratically elected National League for Democracy (NLD), led by Aung San Suu Kyi.

Civil society organizations in Myanmar have been protesting against the military junta for the last one year despite a brutal crackdown. Hence Hyezer’s comments have come as a shocker. According to some estimates, at least 1,400 civilians have been killed in the year-long protests. The protesters have been demanding the restoration of democracy in the country.

A call by the United Nations to ASEAN members to exert pressure on the Myanmar military has not worked. The special envoy has advocated for “confidence-building measures” involving all stakeholders in the region, including ethnic armed organizations. This is also unlikely to cut much ice with the countries in the region. (https://www.straitstimes.com/asia/se-asia/un-envoy-noeleen-heyzer-urges-inclusive-asean-approach-to-myanmar-crisis)

Probably realizing the controversy that her comments have caused, Heyzer has regretted “misrepresentation” indicating that she used the term “power-sharing” in the context of the current crisis in Myanmar.   

Read more:

UN envoy under fire:
https://www.theguardian.com/global-development/2022/feb/03/myanmars-un-envoy-under-fire-for-proposing-power-share-with-military