A luxurious mansion that used to belong to legendary British-American comedian Bob Hope has gone up for sale at a whopping $29 million in Toluca Lake – and it comes with its own miniature golf course.

The 14,848-sq ft home includes eight bedrooms, eight bathrooms, indoor pool and spa, billiard room, bar and chef's kitchen. As well as a guest house, staff quarters, staff offices and a large outdoor pool.

Spectacular features continue throughout the lavish pad that sits in the prestigious neighborhood, Los Angeles, with the Californian sunshine. 

The 14,848-sq ft home includes eight bedrooms, eight bathrooms, indoor pool and spa, billiard room, bar and chef's kitchen and this huge outdoor pool.

Built in 1939, Bob and his wife Delores went on to transformed the house from it's original English traditional style into a more contemporary look in 1950 with a modern color choice in this sitting area

It's nestled on five acres of mature evergreens with rose gardens – and has even been owned by US Presidents. Here is one of the bedrooms, kitted out in netural tones with a seating area, wooden floors and views over the garden

Bob and his wife Delores transformed the house from its original 1939 English traditional style into a more contemporary look in 1950, nestled on five acres of mature evergreens with rose gardens – and has even been owned by US Presidents. 

Bob, who passed away in 2003 aged a 100-year-old, was born in London in 1903, named Leslie Townes Hope. He emigrated to the US with his parents at age four, where he would later adopt his comedic persona and swap the name Leslie to the shorter stage name Bob.

Bob's distinctive appearance with his well-recognized 'ski-jump nose' came from reconstructive surgery after his face was crushed by a falling tree during his childhood.

By the age of 20, he was well on his way to stardom, performing one-liners on radio from 1934 and moving onto television in the 50s cementing the routines that would make him a household name.

His self-deprecating sense of humor made him the stuff of Hollywood legend.