1	Chocolate Pistachio Energy Bites
"Making up some superfood-packed gut-healthy chocolate bliss bites are a great way to nourish yourself at the end of your meal and still get that satisfying sweet tooth craving hit," says Kara Landau, RD and founder at Uplift Food. "Packed with all-natural ingredients such as Vitamin B6 rich pistachio nuts, magnesium-rich cocoa, and slow energy release coconut; together with a burst of prebiotics and probiotics – your gut, digestion, and skin will all thank you for treating yourself to delicious gut healthy bites!"

2. 	Chocolate Covered Strawberries
"Melt 2 tablespoons of semi-sweet or dark chocolate chips in the microwave, and dip 1 cup sliced strawberries in the melted chocolate," says Rachel Paul, PhD, RD, CDN. "This 'recipe' is so easy but feels indulgent—like you're eating Ghiradelli chocolate covered strawberries. The strawberries give you a boost of vitamin C, and the chocolate is enough decadence without being too sweet."

3	Yogurt Parfait
"Yogurt is full of protein and other essential nutrients like calcium, potassium, and B vitamins, making it a great base for dessert," says Amy Goodson, MS, RD, CSSD, LD, and author of The Sports Nutrition Playbook. "Choosing plain yogurt and sweetening it with fresh fruit and a sprinkle of whole grain granola can help satisfy your sweet tooth without going overboard on the calories. Plus, a yogurt parfait includes protein, fiber, and vitamins and minerals make it the perfect way to end a meal."

4	Avocado Chocolate Pudding
"To make this, you chill the avocado, and blend 1/2 an avocado, 1 Medjool date, 1 tablespoon cacao powder and1/4 cup almond milk," says Jinan Banna, RD and associate professor at the University of Hawai'i at Manoa. "This is a great option because it contains heart-healthy fat, fiber, and a good dose of antioxidants. These dietary components are important for chronic disease prevention."

5	Fruit Crumbles
"In the winter, I like to bake fruit crumbles. I make a streusel with old-fashioned oats, whole wheat flour, butter, and salt, and dollop on top of a bunch of berries mixed together with a little sugar, lemon juice, and vanilla," says Theresa Gentile, MS, RDN.