Crohn’s disease and ulcerative colitis are the two main types of inflammatory bowel disease (IBD).

These lifelong conditions involve inflammation of the digestive system. Ulcerative colitis affects the large intestine, while Crohn’s disease can affect any part of the digestive system, from mouth to anus.

These conditions can be managed but not cured. For many people, IBD is manageable with medication, but some more severe cases do result in surgery.

Many people with IBD will experience a flare-up of symptoms that often leads to a diagnosis, though flare-ups continue after diagnosis, and this is usually when many symptoms become more apparent, such as needing the toilet more often, experiencing rectal bleeding, and having abdominal pain.

If you’re going through a flare-up, it’s important that you look after yourself and have people onboard to support you. You need to take time to look after yourself, and to remember that your health is what’s most important.

1. Talk to people you trust about what you’re going through 

If you can feel yourself going into a flare-up, or you’re already in one, talk to the people you love about what’s happening. Tell them what you’re going through and how your flare is affecting you.
Not only will it make you feel better to talk to someone about what’s happening, but it also allows those closest to you to gain an understanding, which means they’ll be able to offer help and support in the most appropriate way.

Tell them about your symptoms and what you need from the people you love, and be honest with them. Don’t hold back. Your aim is to make it through this flare and to get back on track, and you need as much support as possible — so tell them how they can best give that to you.

Tell them if you’d find it helpful for them to call you to check up on you.

Tell them if you’d just like them to listen and not to advise .

Source - https://www.healthline.com/health/7-ways-to-help-yourself-during-a-flare-up-of-inflammatory-bowel-disease