Sidhi, Madhya Pradesh: At 9 pm on 2 April, a group of about 25 men gathered outside the Kotwali police station in the town of Sidhi in north-eastern Madhya Pradesh. They sat on the side of the road outside the police station. A few began to raise slogans against chief minister (CM) Shivraj Singh Chouhan, the longest-serving CM of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), and against Sidhi’s elected legislator, Kedarnath Shukla, also of the BJP.  They were protesting the arrest of a local theatre artiste, Neeraj Kunder.


Ten men were arrested, including a journalist who runs a YouTube channel, seven theatre artists and two others. Later that night, the men were photographed standing inside the police station and seated on the floor of a lock-up, wearing only their underpants.



“Hame maara-peeta gaya, nirvas‍tr kiya gaya. Kaha gaya ki vidhaayak ke khilaaf khabar chalaaage to chaddi me juloos nikaalenge (I was beaten, stripped. I was told that if I publish news against the member of the legislative assembly (MLA), we would be paraded outside in our underwear),” Kanishk Tiwari, the 35-year-old journalist among those arrested, told Article 14.
According to Tiwari, they were kept in the lock-up of Kotwali police station for 18 hours. The men said they remained semi-naked until 2 pm the following day, when they were produced before a magistrate and released on bail.


Leaked photographs of the disrobed men that went viral on 7 April were taken by sub-inspector Abhishek Singh Parihar of the Amelia police station, located 40 km east of the town of Sidhi, according to the men. Policemen had been summoned from various police stations that day to beef up police presence before the protest.


Asked why the men arrested in Sidhi were kept in the lock-up in only their underpants, Manoj Soni, the station house officer (SHO), said the men were “not completely naked”. He said, “We keep them in their underwear in the lock-up for security, so that no person hangs himself with his clothes.” 

Read more - https://article-14.com/post/why-a-journalist-7-theatre-artistes-were-attacked-paraded-in-underwear-by-madhya-pradesh-police-6257944e92be1