Let me start by asking you all- how many times have you made fun of a person with east asian looking eyes calling it "chinese eyes"? or looked down on women for simply just existing. or pointed to a person "too black"? or mocked someone's clothes, the way they speak or their accent? while all they were doing was to communicate better. Don't you ever feel a pinch of shame and guilt over your ridiculous, insensitive and inhumane behaviours? We live in a world filled with all kinds of different people, belonging to different ethnicities, races, religion, gender identities, nationalities. Living in such a vast and diverse world we must know how to respect different cultures , identities and ideologies and create a space filled with love, respect, harmony and peace. a path that brings growth and prosperity to a society. If we do not have peace and harmony, achieving political strength economical stability and cultural growth will be impossible. A white women flinches and clutches her bag while seeing a black man walking past her. A man with a beard is heavily scruntinized & doubted upon just because of his beard.  an asian american is complimented for his english, but it's actually his first language.  A woman can't speak without being interrupted by her male  colleagues and a parent hides their child when they see a queer person approaching because they still think that being gay is a disease that your child can catch. 
There is a name for whats happening in the situations, when people's biases against marginalised groups reveal themselves in a way that leave their victims feeling uncomfortable & insulted:  microaggressions.  It gets even more worse  & there you have it: racism. All of this is  a never-ending vicious cycle that we must put a stop on. 
To sum it up, peace is essential to control the evils which damage our society. it is obvious that we'll keep facing crisis on different levels but we can fight better against it with peace , as for peace is a vital of humankind for survival and strive for a better future. End Racism. Build Peace. thank you.