Jammu: At least 78% or 70 of Jammu and Kashmir (J&K)’s 90 assembly constituencies will be recreated, with evidence that the redistricting will reduce representation for areas with Muslim majorities, particularly in the Kashmir Valley, which is 95% Muslim.  



This is apparent in the final report of a committee tasked to create new electoral constituencies in J&K, clearing the decks for the first assembly elections after its demotion to a union territory. On 30 March, home minister Amit Shah announced in Parliament that elections were indeed scheduled after the constituencies were redrawn.



But the exercise, said experts, is riddled with flaws, ignoring as it does the cardinal principle of population in conducting delimitation, or redrawing electoral boundaries, and does not explain how it has applied the laws and guidelines governing delimitation.



The former J&K state assembly had 114 seats, of which 24 were reserved for Pakistan-administered Kashmir, a region that India holds as occupied territory that will someday be reintegrated. The delimitation exercise, then, is limited to 70 assembly constituencies within Indian control.



A three-member J&K Delimitation Commission headed by former Supreme Court judge, Justice Anjana Prakash, was formed on 6 March 2020 and assigned to redraw and increase assembly and parliamentary constituencies in J&K, in accordance with sections 59 and 60 of J&K Reorganisation Act 2019 and the Delimitation Act 2002, respectively, which clearly state the latest census to be the primary basis  delimitation.

The idea behind a delimitation process is to ensure better access between the public and their representatives,” said Noor Ahmed Baba PhD, a professor of political science. Where necessary, other factors, such as geographical size and physical features of a constituency and “public convenience”—a reference to accessibility, particularly in remote areas—may also be considered, according to the laws governing delimitation.



Far from ensuring geographical compactness and public convenience, the geographical congruity of assembly constituencies has been disrupted in many instances. 

Read more - https://article-14.com/post/kashmir-s-new-electoral-map-boosts-hindu-electoral-influence-reduces-muslim-representation-625c729a74c8b