Todd Boehly has been confirmed as the new Chelsea owner. The American businessman has reportedly vowed to make heavy investments to put the club back on the right track. 


The Blues have been suffering since Roman Abramovich decided to sell the club in February. Owing to Russia's attack on Ukraine, the businessman had been blamed for his friendship with Vladimir Putin. His assets including Chelsea FC were also frozen. 


Hence, Chelsea were not even able to extend the contract of their existing players since early March. As a result of this, the Blues are reportedly set to lose out on Antonio Rudiger, Andreas Christensen, and Cesar Azpilicueta. 


Todd Boehly's takeover will be completed in the next few days. Following this, the Blues will be free to conduct transfer business once again.


What does the transfer window hold for Chelsea? 

As per the Daily Mail, Todd Boehly is ready to make a "heavy investment" immediately after acquiring the club. Hence, the future does look bright for the Blues under the American billionaire. 

The LA Dodgers part-owner was present in the stands as Chelsea drew 2-2 against Wolverhampton Wanderers on Saturday. A last gasp goal by Conor Coady helped the Wolves equalize the game at injury time, hence spoiling Boehly's party. 

As per reports, one of the priorities for Todd Boehly in the coming months is to extend Mason Mount and Reece James' contracts. Both the players have been wonderful for the club and hence they have attracted a lot of interest. 

The next on Boehly's agenda would be to sign multiple defenders in the summer. Having reportedly lost out on Rudiger, Christensen, and Azpilicueta, the Blues would need to make a major investment in this department. 

Chelsea could additionally also lose out on Romelu Lukaku, Hakim Ziyech, Christian Pulisic, Marcos Alonso, and Jorginho in the summer. Hence Thomas Tuchel's team could undergo a major transition if Todd Boehly decides to do so. 

The American billionaire has reportedly bought the club for around £4.25 billion from Roman Abramovich. This deal also includes the investments that are set to go in to improve Stamford Bridge and the Chelsea Academy. 