The 750-mile-long Nord Stream 2 pipeline, built at a $11 billion budget, was supposed to send Russian natural gas under the Baltic Sea to Europe via Germany. The pipeline would solve the rising energy crisis in Germany and a few other European Union countries, but critics fear it will also increase Europe’s energy dependence on Russia. As a result, German energy regulators delayed its approval late last year. Also, among German opponents of the pipeline, include lawmakers from the Green party, now a part of the government.
  
In addition, the pipeline, once operational, would also circumvent Ukraine which earns transit fees on existing gas pipelines. This is the reason why Ukraine’s President Volodymyr Zelensky described Nord Stream 2 as a "dangerous geopolitical weapon".

Last Thursday, Republican Ted Cruz sponsored a bill to slap sanctions on the pipeline in order to upset Russian President Putin’s calculation and prevent a Ukrainian invasion. "If we don't come together today, Ukraine risks getting wiped off the map altogether," he said at the Senate.

Yet the bill was defeated 55-44, especially due to opposition from Democrat senators. Their argument is that the bill would have spoiled US relations with Germany because the pipeline is essential to solve its energy crisis and vital to its industries.

The Democrats would rather focus on an alternative bill, placed on Wednesday, which is expected to impose strong sanctions on Russia's top financial institutions and administrators, including Putin, if Russia invaded Ukraine. The bill will also allocate $500 million military aid to Ukraine if there is a Russian invasion.
  
Not unexpectedly, the Ukrainian President Zelensky expressed despair that Democrat senators shot down the proposal of sanctions on Nord Stream2. He had thanked the Republican senator for agreeing on a vote, before the bill was placed on the US senate to stop the Russian gas pipeline, in a tweet.    

READ MORE:

 https://www.usnews.com/news/us/articles/2022-01-13/u-s-democrats-slam-cruz-nord-stream-2-sanctions-bill-ahead-of-vote

https://www.dw.com/en/nord-stream-2-us-senate-democrats-defeat-sanctions-bill/a-60420538

https://tass.com/economy/1385055