Two years ago this week, the Recovery trial transformed the care of COVID patients with its dexamethasone announcement. Within four hours, the steroid was included in NHS treatment recommendations. Almost overnight, treatment of COVID patients around the world changed completely. It has been estimated that dexamethasone may have saved a million lives in the first nine months following the announcement.

Recovery, jointly led by Oxford Population Health and the Nuffield Department of Medicine, is a groundbreaking scientific machine which, from the outset, moved at unprecedented speed. Within 15 days, more than 1,000 participants around the UK had joined the trial; five weeks later, that number had risen to 10,000. In the first 100 days alone, the trial produced three groundbreaking results that would completely reshape COVID care.

From an impromptu discussion between two professors on a London bus to headlines around the world – and a baby being born at home in the midst of the pandemic – this is the inside story of Recovery, by three medics who have been part of this extraordinary journey.

The vast and unique nature of the NHS provided the perfect setting for the trial’s rapid development. Indeed, if a similar approach could now be employed for other common and important diseases, we believe it could transform the quality of evidence supporting treatments for millions more people in the UK and around the world.

Hospital ward
Within months, every acute hospital in the UK was a recruiting Recovery site. Cambridge University Hospitals, Author provided (no reuse)
How it all began
Mark – Working on hospital wards during the first wave of the pandemic was at times a haunting experience. Patients of all ages were severely ill, and could deteriorate rapidly with little warning. I spent many hours talking to patients at their bedside and to their relatives on the phone – not knowing when the last conversation might be; wanting to offer hope but not false hope. 

Read more:  https://theconversation.com/the-inside-story-of-recovery-how-the-worlds-largest-covid-19-trial-transformed-treatment-and-what-it-could-do-for-other-diseases-184772