While there's clearly plenty of competition out there, of all the fantasy films to grace the big screen there's only one that can be declared "the best”, only one trilogy that can genuinely claim to rule them all, and for those who haven’t seen it. Seriously please just go watch it now, for all things sacred. Absorbing, lengthy, passionately adapted, thematically rich and possessing the perfect soundtrack, the Lord Of The Rings movie trilogy beautifully rewards a binge viewing. If you want to upgrade your average cinematic experience into something better and more deserving of the word artistic, then LOTR is your jam.

These cinematic jewels celebrate collective action, rich emotional storytelling, and various themes, such as how in the face of overwhelming odds, when disparate individuals are completely united toward a common goal, they are a force to be reckoned with. Yet at the same time these films honour the importance of a single individual, showing that ultimately in the entire vast course of the universe, even the smallest person can change the course of the future.

From their sheer scope, size and ambition, Peter Jackson’s LOTR trilogy proved themselves a cinematic milestone in the realm of fantasy movies, from the moment they first flashed up on the screen all those years ago. Grandness and ambition defined, LOTR is not just a movie trilogy, it is the epitome of cinematic art which is made even better with the extended edition. Yes four hours is a lot, but this is worth it.

The sheer scope of the project is greatly impressive on every level, and calling it revolutionary is not overstating it. From the jaw-dropping massive and beautiful shots, to the grand sets, an epic score, an armoury of weapons, and state of the art make-up, there's nothing about this trilogy that could be considered small. The grandness of the film making can be seen further, as the films can stand on par or even outdo their more modern CGI-laden competition. Far from looking dated, several scenes have aged like the finest of wines, such as the encounter with the Balrog or the Battle of Helm’s Deep.