Tucked away at a lane in Arehalli Guddadahalli, a small village in Bengaluru Rural district is a nondescript factory of LaundryMate, one of India’s first organised technology-led online laundry services firms.  
The company has built the country’s largest laundry facility, which is spread across 53,000 square feet — the size of a football field.  
Inside the hangar-like building, one can hear the whooshing and humming sound of big hi-tech washing machines being operated by the newly-recruited staff of LaundryMate.  
It is even offering a facility where customers can log into the company app and watch their clothes being washed live with the help of cameras fitted there. The facility has the capacity to process nearly 45,000 clothes a day.  
Abhinay Choudhari, co-founder of online grocery firm BigBasket, launched LaundryMate’s service on Saturday as his next venture aimed at solving the household laundry chore. His target is to achieve annual gross revenue of $1 billion at LaundryMate by 2030.  
The firm has launched its business-to-consumer (B2C) app and operations in Bengaluru. It plans to roll out in 30 cities, including small towns, over the next decade.  
“Our mission is to improve the quality of life of our customers,” said Choudhari, co-founder and chief executive officer (CEO) of LaundryMate.  
For LaundryMate, Choudhari has partnered with a team of six experienced co-founders having global experience across various industries.  
These include Raghavendra Joshi, chief information officer (CIO), Tripat Preet Singh, chief financial officer (CFO), Uday Vijayan, chief marketing officer (CMO), Asad Zaidi, chief procurement and projects officer (CPPO), and Pushpendra Yadav, chief operating officer (COO).   
The firm has been set up with an internal funding round and with the help of family and friends.  
Vijayan said there is clearly a need for a recognisable laundry services brand at a time when a lot of people have shifted to ordering pharmacy, grocery and food online.  
He said the firm did a 30-city study and qualitative research. It found that it is the wife or the lady in the house, who mainly does the laundry on a daily basis.   
To read the full article, click here. 
