
I stood on Kyiv’s main boulevard, Khreshchatyk, one year ago, on Aug. 24, 2021, celebrating along with thousands of Ukrainians who were watching the Independence Day parade.
The parade featured newly obtained weapons such as the lightweight missile systems known as Javelins. There were flyovers by Ukraine’s air forces, including the largest plane in the world at the time, known as the “Dream.”
At the time, Kyiv felt like a modern European city amid its thriving cafe culture and nightlife.
Many Ukrainians have long participated in building democracy in Ukraine. Most never anticipated that the greatest threat to their country would come in the form of a full-scale invasion by Russia, which came on Feb. 24, 2022. The fight to ensure Ukraine’s independence now looks quite different than it did just one year ago.
As a scholar of protest movements and democratic development in Ukraine, I think it is useful to understand Ukraine’s long history of seeking and preserving Independence
Recent pro-democracy movements
The dissolution of the Soviet Union in 1991 led to the creation of the modern-day state of Ukraine. It has transformed dramatically in 30 years, but that fight for sovereignty has been waged for decades, if not centuries.
While Russia’s invasion is the gravest threat to modern Ukraine’s existence, Ukrainians over the years have demonstrated that they will resist and fight – no matter the odds.
In 2004, for example, Viktor Yanukovych claimed he had won presidential elections that international organizations and observers considered fraudulent. This prompted thousands of Ukrainians to protest Yanukovych’s claim to victory, until new elections were held and the rightful winner, Viktor Yushchenko, declared victory.
In late 2013 and early 2014, after Yanukovych had gained the presidency in a 2010 election, pro-democracy protesters fought his push toward much closer ties with Russia, in a movement known as Euromaidan. Demonstrators marched in the streets, at first to support formally cementing ties with the European Union.
Read more: https://theconversation.com/ukraine-celebrates-independence-day-with-a-new-level-of-meaning-as-it-fights-back-against-russia-189224