On the second day of the Oslo meetings, Afghan women's rights activists submitted a paper that included Afghan women's demands to the Islamic Emirate's delegation, and representatives of countries attended the meeting.

At the meeting, Hoda Khamosh, one of the women's rights representatives, once again called for the release of two female activists who disappeared last week. She further said that the world is responsible for current conditions across Afghanistan.

Another Afghan activist attended the meeting, Mahbouba Seraj, saying the Islamic Emirate should fulfill whatever they promised at the meeting.

"If they continue this way, to tell us something and do something else, that's when the trust is going to break, completely. When the trust breaks completely, they should remember what happened to the ex-government of Afghanistan. We lost trust in them too. The people of Afghanistan could not find themselves in that government either," said Mahbouba Seraj.

"Yes, they were listening. I should say that. They really were listening. We gave them some paper. We asked them what we wanted. They took it. They were very, very cordial about it," she said.

"The representatives of the international community spoke their own concerns over human rights and the rights of women and stressed that the Taliban need to build trust," said Nazifa Jalali, a woman attending the meeting.

At the same time, Amir Khan Muttaqi told reporters that the Islamic Emirate would inquire about the disappearance of female activists in Kabul.

"We will try and ask about the incident (in which women activists were allegedly arrested by the Taliban). It is not possible in a government with 40 million citizens that no one gets arrested and jailed and that we do not protect people from harm. It is possible; it is a government, some people are jailed, some people get released. It is not an abnormal action ... that only exists in Afghanistan," said Amir Khan Muttaqi.

Meanwhile, the head of the United Nations Assistance Mission in Afghanistan (UNAMA) met Serajuddin Haqqani, minister of interior affairs, and called for the release of Afghan female activists.