Best Player: Wilfried Zaha

On the back of an impressive 2021-22 campaign, there are several Eagles players that stand
out as having enjoyed productive years.

Zaha would be an obvious choice again, given that he
outscored the rest of his teammates by seven goals or more, but based on his overall game, the
29-year-old was perhaps not quite as influential on Palace's success as a whole this year
compared to recent seasons.

Gallagher's impressive season for Palace even saw him make his
senior England debut back in November, before featuring in back-to-back games for his country
in March, and with the midfielder returning to Chelsea this summer, his future will certainly be an
interesting one to follow in the upcoming transfer window.

In only his second Premier League
campaign, Gallagher looked right at home in the Palace midfield from the beginning, and his
energy and aggressiveness out of possession were perhaps the biggest factors in helping Vieira
to be successful in the team's new style.

Flop of the Season: Jordan Ayew

Jordan Ayew played 23 games in the English Premier League season of 2021/22. (Plus eight as
a sub). They scored three goals with eight shots on target out of a total of twenty (4.16 xG).

Jordan Ayew averaged 23 passes and 3 assists per game, with an 84 percent pass completion
percentage.Jordan Ayew earned two yellow cards and no red cards throughout the match.

Jordan Ayew's average Infogol Player Rating in the English Premier League for the 2021/22
season was 6.45.

Jordan Ayew's most recent outing was a 1-0 home win for Crystal Palace versus Manchester
United in the English Premier League.

Wilfried Zaha, top scorer

Wilfried Zaha played 31 games in the English Premier League season of 2021/22. (Plus 2 as a
sub). They scored 14 goals with 32 shots on target from a total of 51 shots (10.27 xG).

Wilfried
Zaha averaged 28 passes per game, with an 80% completion rate and 1 assist. Wilfried Zaha
was given six yellow cards and one red card. Wilfried Zaha's average Infogol Player Rating in
the English Premier League for the 2021/22 season was 7.14.