(4/7)

By PR Chaswal

Just to name a few globally known institutions and projects during Nehru’s time - Asia’s second-highest dam, the Bhakra-Nangal Dam Project (1948-1963), Council of Scientific and Industrial Research (C.I.S.R, 1942-1950), Three Indian Institute of Technology (I.I.T, 1950), Bhabha Atomic Research Centre (B.A.R.C, 1954), All India Institute of Medical Sciences (A.I.I.M.S., 1956), Bhilai Steel Plant (1955), Durgapur Steel Plant (1959), Rourkela Steel Plant (1959), Hindustan Shipyard Limited in Vishakhapatnam (1961), Hindustan Aeronautics Limited at Bangalore (1964), etc.

All of these institutions command great respect today globally and are some of the big projects undertaken during his stewardship of the Indian nation despite limited financial resources.

With an eye on the equitable allocation of resources to all the Indian states, he envisioned the establishment of the Planning Commission and invited the best of Indian talent as its members. In the realm of arts, he founded the Sahitya Academy and Natya Kala Academy which are inclusive of all registered Indian languages and uplift literature and performing arts from all corners far and wide in the country.

The list of scientific, administrative, socio-economic, art, and cultural programs initiated during his time is endless, these above-mentioned examples are just a tip of an iceberg, still standing strong in the context of today’s world.

Pandit Nehru possessed many other qualities in addition to being a truthful leader and honest ruler. He was a multi-faceted personality, loved and almost adored by the Indian masses from the core of their conscience. He himself was deeply interested in the world of art, literature, and composition. His books namely 'Discovery of India', 'Glimpses of World History' and 'Toward Freedom (Autobiography)' speak volumes of Pandit Nehru's higher intellectual pursuits and the unique creative genius wielded by his pen.

To be continued (5/7)

About the author - A former union leader & banker PR Chaswal, 78, is a published author and editor of e-patrika Anhad Kriti.

He is a fervent admirer of Pandit Nehru, attended two of Nehru’s speeches in person, and also got an opportunity to perform in a skit for Chacha Nehru in 1955.

He is currently staying in America.