2/2

Over 1000 runners participated in the 3rd Tuffman Kasauli Hills Half Marathon powered by Glenview Villas Kasauli

Apart from athletes from the army & North Indian states, runners travelled from distant places in Nagaland, West Bengal, Andhra Pradesh, Tamil Nadu, Kerala, Karnataka, Maharashtra to participate in the Tuffman Hill Run and enjoyed the scenic beauty, local villages and mist. 

Over 100 local government school kids also took part in the 3km & 5km runs. They were sponsored by Glenview Villas Kasauli.

Eco–friendly paper cups were used for offering water and various liquids to the participants also food plates were made of eco–friendly paper only.

Lauding the efforts of participants of all categories, Brig CS Pathania said, “Running is not just about physical stamina but also needs mental strength and testing yourself. I am happy to see the enthusiasm and participation from various parts of the country is just beautiful in itself to run a half marathon and keep fit for the daily lifestyle.”

The event was powered by Glenview Villas Kasauli which is a RERA-approved luxury housing project located in the lap of nature. Post-race refreshments were looked after by Welcome Heritage Glenview Resort, Kasauli and medical facilities were looked after by Max Healthcare, Mohali. Wow Skin Science was the skincare partner and Bodyvine was the performance partner for the event.

The run participation also included an excellent quality Tuffman DRI - FIT T-shirt, goodie bag, race bib, pre and post-race hydration, excellent pictures throughout the race, digital race certificate (for all finishers, post completion of the race), race photos search via selfie and a beautiful finisher’s medal.

Virtual edition of the race

The registrations for the virtual edition of the race to be held on 6th – 8th May are open till April 31st at www.tuffmanindia.com or bit.ly/TuffmanKasauliVR. General & sponsorship queries can be addressed at info@tuffmanindia.com.

TUFFMAN is India's premier endurance sports platform bringing Running, Cycling & Swimming events to sports enthusiasts. All events are organized in various beautiful destinations & major cities in India, which everyone wishes to visit like Chandigarh (Half Marathon, Triathlon, 24 Hours Stadium Run), Shimla (Mashobra), Manali, Gurugram, Kasauli, Leh, Goa, Jaisalmer, Jaipur & Andaman & Nicobar Islands at varied terrains to run on.