Despite previous studies stating that vitamins are effective against Covid-19, a recent study shows that using immune-boosting supplements like vitamin C, D, and zinc does not reduce your risk of dying from the virus.

While these supplements have been marketed as a replacement for established vaccines, researchers from The University of Toledo in Ohio, USA, say there is insufficient evidence to support this claim.



Dr. Azizullah Beran, an internal medicine resident at the University's College of Medicine and Life Sciences, stated, "A lot of people have this misunderstanding that if you load up on zinc, vitamin D, or C, it might better the clinical outcome of Covid-19."



Beran remarked, "That hasn't been proven to be accurate."

The team evaluated 26 peer-reviewed papers from around the world that involved more than 5,600 hospitalised Covid patients for the study, which was published in the journal Clinical Nutrition ESPEN.

When comparing patients who received vitamin D, C, or zinc to those who did not receive any of these supplements, the researchers observed no difference in death.

While vitamin D supplementation may be linked to fewer intubations and shorter hospital stays, the researchers cautioned that more research is needed to confirm the findings.

Vitamin C and zinc were not linked to shorter hospital stays or a lower likelihood of being placed on a ventilator.

Vitamin C and zinc were not linked to shorter hospital stays or a lower likelihood of being placed on a ventilator.

The researchers also looked at a smaller group of people who took vitamin D before catching the virus and found no significant differences in fatality rates.

They stressed, however, that the findings should not be construed as implying that vitamin and mineral supplements are harmful or should be avoided, but rather that they are ineffective in preventing Covid-related deaths.

Read more- https://www.timesnownews.com/health/article/vitamins-cannot-lower-death-risk-from-covid-19-study/860569