By Shivaji Dasgupta
As per evidence from every possible box office, Bollywood is reeling under severe losses with their South Indian counterparts racing ahead. The many Gabbar Singhs accountable for this carnage can defensibly be clubbed under 'technology', from multiple socio-cultural telescopes.
But firstly, it is necessary to reiterate the impact of Southern creativity in terms of influence, unfathomable even a decade back. The creations are gaining mainstream custom in non-traditional markets, North of the Vindhyas, both on the large screen as well as the digital device.
While stars like Allu Arjun, Vijay and Samantha Prabhu are now becoming national, not regional, ambassadors of mega brands including Coca-Cola, KFC, Kurkure, Sprite and Kingfisher amongst worthy others. As a logical sequel, they are being invited to lead Hindi films, not just as fresh faces (formula of yore) but as revenue drivers (imperative of now).
All of this seems rather strange for those brought up in an India with transparent cultural divides, the South a fascinating yet distant smorgasbord of imagination while Bollywood remained the comprehensible, occasionally inspirational, staple. Which is exactly where I must introduce the first role of technology, in this instance the IT boom which exposed Northerly professionals to Southern living, large cohorts moving to Hyderabad, Chennai and naturally Bangalore for remunerative careers, from the late 1980's.
This led to a genuine template of cultural integration, from music to food to movies, and an appreciation of the spellbinding creativity and originality of local content, way too attractive for language to become a needy barrier. A certain virality of this sentiment logically emerged, as friends and family of those exposed to such genres were lovingly influenced, and over three decades a fan following was ably established. What we see today as cinematic affections were certainly founded by this lucrative micro-immigration caused by 'technology', to areas which earlier were friendly yet foreign posting points.
Read more
https://www.newsdrum.in/film/how-technology-is-murdering-bollywood-80383.html