Nigeria’s Chief Justice Tanko Muhammad has resigned in the wake of corruption allegations. President Muhammadu Buhari immediately swore in the most senior judge of the Supreme Court, Olukayode Ariwoola, as Acting Chief Justice. Justice Muhammad leaves behind a dysfunctional justice system. The Conversation Africa asked public law expert Abiodun Odusote what Muhammad’s successor can do to fix the justice system.

What’s wrong with Nigeria’s justice system?
The events preceding Justice Muhammad’s resignation and the news emanating afterwards call for reflection on the administration of justice in Nigeria. A week before he resigned, 14 Supreme Court justices had accused him of corruption and of not taking their welfare seriously. In addition, he was accused of misplaced priorities and the use of limited financial resources to take his family on vacation.

The justices cited challenges that have almost crippled the efficient adjudication of cases at the court. Some major issues they raised include non-replacement of bad vehicles, poor accommodation, lack of drugs at the Supreme Court clinic and poor electricity supply to the Supreme Court.

Others are the increase in electricity tariff at their residences, little or no increase in the allowances for diesel and lack of internet services to residences and chambers. In his defence, he alluded to limited resources. Then he resigned on health grounds.

Nigeria’s systems are built around individuals rather than process driven. Any process that allows an individual to access or misappropriate N80 billion naira (about US$191 million) must be overhauled.

The time has come for an administrator of the Supreme Court with the primary duty of court administration and welfare. This person should ensure that the complex is well maintained and serviced, with adequate supply of electricity, and that the justices are comfortable and paid automatically, without delay.

Read more: https://theconversation.com/nigerias-top-judge-leaves-the-justice-system-in-a-mess-heres-how-his-successor-can-fix-it-186079