
Who says that playing for the National team is all about pride and the flag? Gone are the days when sportspersons were made to march on empty stomach and win medals. Now they are far more professional; they refuse to sell their skills without monetary benefits. The latest example is the dispute between Kylian Mbappe and the French soccer federation over the issue of image rights as the world champions prepare for the Nations League matches. As per the media reports, Mbappe refused to participate in a photo session with his teammates because the federation has not amended the collective agreement governing rights for the French team ahead of the World Cup.
The current agreement that dates back to 2010 requires players to participate in marketing operations with the team's sponsors. In return, players receive €25,000 ($25,000) for every international match they play. But Mbappe and his advisers argue that the deal is unfair because images of some high-profile players are used more often than others. They also want the right to review the brands with which players are associated.
The matter got further complicated when a senior official of the KFC France, who have a sponsorship deal with the French Football Federation, threatened to take legal action after Mbappe’s refusal to take part in the photoshoot. Finally, the company had to back out as they distanced themselves from the comments of the senior executive and said they are all with French football. Alain Beral, vice president of KFC France, had earlier told the media that the company was considering legal action, though he did not specify whether this would be against the player or the French Football Federation. “We have paid for something clear. If necessary, we will assert our rights,” Beral said. KFC France, however, later said that Beral’s comments did not reflect the company’s views. So, if anybody thinks playing for the National team is only about the shirt and the satisfaction to play for the country, then he or she is surely living in a make believe world.