Alternative energy refers to any other source of energy especially, renewable energies such as biofuels, solar, hydrogen, geothermal and non-renewable nuclear energy. Can these alternative energies be a replacement for fossil fuels which we use for almost all our activities? It is the only possible way to live in the future as these renewable resources are replenishing and the cost the increasing day by day. Moreover, the resources are limited to certain countries from debates to wars happening in sharing these resources.

Fossil fuels are widely used but they are ineffective, unsustainable, environmentally harmful, and the primary contributor to global climate change.
More than a fight to save the environment the need of shifting to renewable energy is necessary as it is the way quickly and effectively meet rising energy demands. The reduction of fossil fuels is necessary for the climatic change we face.  How can we conclude that fossil fuels are effective when over a billion people around the world lack access to electricity, and increasing fossil fuel-based generation will not fix this. 

Renewables on a small scale needed for households are cheaper and easy to install. It is an alternative energy effectively replace fossil fuels? to keep the power supply private and local. This is very important in fighting energy poverty. Renewable sources like solar lights can be harnessed from homes without the fear of losing power to the authorities. Cost is no longer a problem if we shift completely to renewable sources as the government can easily fund it. All we need is to develop technologies to store energy for periods or at places where there is no wind or sunshine. Batteries are one solution but they face scale, resource availability and environmental challenges. An alternative is to use spare capacity at times of huge renewable availability to split water into oxygen and hydrogen. The hydrogen can then generate electricity or drive heavy transport, aircraft or processes that are not easy to electrify. This can be also used to harness the energy we need. When we have a lot of options why isn't the world sticking to the older habits which harm the environment?