Elizabeth Keckley was the personal modiste and confidante of First Lady Mary Todd Lincoln. Her mother being a slave had to face severe repercussions in her life including physical abuse out of which Elizabeth was born. Her father owned her and later she was owned by her half-sister. She became a nursemaid to an infant when she was four years old. She received brutal treatment—including being raped and whipped to the point of bleeding welts—from Burwell's family members and a family friend. When she became a seamstress, the Garland family found that it was financially beneficial to have her make clothes for others. The money that she made helped to fund the Garland family of seventeen family members.

After the American Civil War, Keckley published an autobiography, Behind the Scenes: Or, Thirty Years a Slave and Four Years in the White House. It was both a slave narrative yet controversial due to the extent of information shared about the Lincolns' private lives and mostly for the reason of an African American who was a former slave expressing herself. She brought for herself and her son through the money she obtained as a seamstress. When her books were published some groups even argued that the book was an example of why Black women should not be educated. Her position in society as a free Black woman writing a memoir that disclosed personal information about Washington’s white elite was simply distasteful at the time. Keckly fought back against these attacks arguing that nothing she wrote about Mrs Lincoln compared to the consistent abuse she underwent at the hands of the newspapers in the wake of the dress selling scandal. Although the book caused quite a stir upon its publication, it soon faded to the background. The book did not sell many copies some people played behind the suppression of those books. Yet her legacy remains even in the Met Gala 2022. Christopher John Rogers designed the look of Sarah Jessica Parker as a tribute to pays Elizabeth Hobbs Keckley, history as the first female Black fashion designer to work in the White House. 