In childhood, life seemed simple. We would look at the stars and conclude that astronomy is exciting and that becoming an astronaut is easy. Unfortunately, as we grew older, reality hit, and we switched from aspiring astronauts to taking it one day at a time. 
As kids, we didn't know enough, and now, we know too much. As a result, motivation dwindles, leading to extreme highs and lows in self-esteem.

People have different ways of gaining motivation, and I'd like to list out my favorite courses of action.

1. Scrolling through Pinterest
This does not mean lying on the bed upside down while engaging yourself with pointless memes! I am referring to reading inspirational quotes. Beware, quotes have the potential to justify anything, so you need to ensure that you're looking at the right ones. These anonymous tips hold immense power and make one feel a little bit in control. 

2. Ted Talks by famous people don't help as much!
Ted talks are known for boosting morale. However, it can be hard to relate to them. The speakers have already achieved a significant milestone while you struggle with the idea of brushing every night! The environment is ever-changing, and the situations are different for everyone. What was true in their time is not necessarily true now! 
I prefer carrying out discussions with my friends as they face similar dilemmas. However, it is essential to surround yourself with encouraging friends and not those who'd casually say, "Bro, same!"
At the same time, you shouldn't discard Ted Talks in their entirety. They have a lot to offer, so hearing them once in a while would be highly beneficial!

3. Lastly, this is a highly absurd suggestion but hear me out! 
"Starting is the best route to motivation."
Looking at the long-term goal gets daunting when you are already feeling down. So, first, giving yourself a break is vital. Second, taking baby steps is the mantra. 
Most people break down without properly beginning as they fear failure. It is necessary to let go of that nagging worry. That is the one voice in your head you should ignore!