Al-Jazeera analyzes the living conditions of Hazara citizens in Afghanistan and writes that violence against the people has increased since the withdrawal of international forces.

The authors of the analysis emphasize that the world must put pressure on the Taliban to ensure that millennia are not genocide.

In a note published in Al -Jazeera, Setareh Mohammadi and Sajjad Askari said the Taliban were committing human rights abuses in Afghanistan and that Hazara citizens in the country were at risk.

This is not the first time the Taliban have been accused of genocide against Afghanistan's Hazara citizens.

The Taliban are not the only group that threatens the security of the Hazaras.

In recent years, there have been numerous bloody attacks on public places belonging to the Hazaras and Shiites of Afghanistan, which has been claimed by the Khorasan branch of ISIL.

An analysis published in Al -Jazeera states that the Taliban in the first period of their rule in the 1990s chanted "Tajiks go to Tajikistan, Uzbeks to Uzbekistan and Hazaras to cemeteries."

In the first round of their rule in Afghanistan, the Taliban were accused of massacring Hazaras in Yakawlang and Mazars- shiites

Human Rights Watch estimates that at least 2,000 people of various ethnicities, including Hazaras, were killed in the late 1990s. According to other statistics, the death toll may have been 15,000.

Al- Jazeera analysts write that the overthrow of the Taliban regime by the United States has given the Hazara people hope for a peaceful life. The memo notes that although discrimination against the Hazaras has continued for the past 20 years, its citizens have enjoyed relatively little civil liberties.

The memo emphasizes that after 2001, Hazara citizens were targeted by the Taliban and their security was not ensured. Since 2015, ISIL has emerged in Afghanistan and attacks on Hazaras and Shiites have increased.

After the Taliban regained control of Afghanistan, more than 4,000 Hazara citizens were forced to flee to some provinces. Their land was seized and given to Taliban fighters as a reward. A number of Hazara officials in the previous government also disappeared and were killed by the Taliban.

Be to continued