Surinder Singh Rawal, Usha Singh clinch singles Table Tennis titles

Badminton: Kailash Nath, Kulbhushan Ahuja, and Ajay Bhardwaj win singles titles in their respective categories.  

Surinder Singh Rawal and Usha Singh have won the singles title in the men’s open and women’s open category, respectively, in the Inter-Media Table Tennis Tournament held at the club premises on Tuesday. Thirty-two members participated in the two-day event.

In the men’s +55 years singles category, Raj Rishi won the title, while in the men’s double event, pair of Sukhwinder Pal Singh Sodhi and Arvind Saini won the title.

The team of Barinderjit Singh and Usha Singh won the mixed doubles crown.

Earlier, on March 11-12, the 4th Kuldeep Panwar Memorial Inter-Media Badminton Tournament was held at Sports Complex, Sector 38, West, Chandigarh and 38 members participated in the event.

Kailash Nath won the men’s open singles title, while Kulbhushan Ahuja won the men’s +45 years singles title. In the men’s +60 years singles category, Ajay Bhardwaj won the title.  

In the men’s double, a team of Kulbhushan Ahuja and Ramesh Handa won the title, while in the mixed doubles, the pair of Gaurav Marwaha and Richa won the trophy.   

Results: TT

Men’s open singles: 1. Surinder Singh Rawal, 2. Sukhwinder Pal Singh Sodhi, 3. Arvind Saini and Naveen Tyagi.

Men’s +55 years singles: 1. Raj Rishi, 2. Anil Walia, 3. Sanjay Bumbroo and Parvesh Chauhan.

Women’s singles: 1. Usha Singh, 2. Richa.

Men’s Doubles: 1. Sukhwinder Pal Singh Sodhi and Arvind Saini, 2. Surinder Singh Rawal and Saurabh Duggal, 3. Barinderjit Singh and Naveen Tyagi & Sushil Kumar and Umesh Ghrera.

Mixed Doubles: 1. Barinderjit Singh and Usha Singh, 2. Naveen Tyagi and Richa, 3. Sanjay Bumbroo and Shreyashi Thakur.

Badminton:

Men’s Open Singles: 1. Kailash Nath, 2. Kuldeep Singh.

Men’s +45 years singles: 1. Kulbhushan Ahuja, 2. Ramesh Handa.

Men’s +60 years singles: 1. Ajay Bhardwaj, 2. Charanjit Ahuja.

Women’s Singles: 1. Richa, 2. Veena Ahuja.

Men’s Doubles: 1. Kulbhushan Ahuja and Ramesh Handa, 2. Kailash Nath and Ajay Bhardwaj. 

Women’s Doubles: 1. Nikita Sharma and Richa, 2. Veena Ahuja and Usha Singh.

Mixed Doubbles: 1. Gaurav Marwaha and Richa, 2. Charanjit Ahuja and Veena Ahuja.