Delhi: Saniya Kawazi recalled how her teacher shouted at her when she tried to give her final examinations in a hijab, and she recalled the desperation she felt when she was not allowed to.


“The teacher shouted at us saying, ‘either take it off or you can't sit in class,’” Kawazi, a 20-year-old student of history at the JSS Arts, Science and Commerce College in the northern town of Gokak in Karnataka told Article 14, recalling how they pleaded with the school authorities until the final bell rang and the exam started on 25 March 2022.


“It took me 15 years to get here,” she said in a phone conversation last month. “I begged the teacher to let us give the exam.” 


Kawazi was disallowed from appearing for her exams 10 days after a three-judge bench of the Karnataka High Court ruled that wearing the hijab was not an essential practice of Islam. 


In so doing, the bench of Chief Justice Ritu Raj Awasthi, Justice Krishna S Dixit and Justice J M Khazi upheld a government order banning it in state-run educational institutions—where a uniform is prescribed. 


Karnataka is governed by the Hindu nationalist Bharatiya Janata Party, which has overseen and abetted a corrosive anti-Muslim campaign orchestrated by the right-wing, targeting the minority community’s clothes, food, and livelihood, ahead of the state assembly election in 2023. 


The High Court order and the Supreme Court’s reluctance to treat the corresponding appeal as urgent has left Muslim women students, especially those who were not allowed to write exams, deeply anxious and despairing over their degrees that are hanging in the balance, and charting a future course of action.  

Students from poor economic backgrounds, attending the state-run pre university (PU) colleges, cannot afford the fees of private colleges. The women students who spoke to Article 14 confessed to being in a state of limbo—too late in the 2021-2022 academic year that started in May 2021 to transfer out of their colleges to one that accommodated the hijab in its uniform. 

Read more - https://article-14.com/post/alienated-giving-up-on-their-dreams-what-karnataka-s-hijab-ban-has-done-to-muslim-women-students--6274a05347977