Red Coral—The Gemstone of Mars/ 
the God of War continues....

How to identify if a Coral has been dyed?

The simplest method is to dip an ear bud with acetone and rub an inconspicuous area of the coral. If it has been dyed the dye color will attach to the cotton bud. The same can be done using a piece of white cotton cloth.

The ultimate test for identifying Genuine Red Coral 

Since you can see that the chemical tests listed above have their limitations and are not 100% accurate and if being 100% natural and organic is a parameter that is vital for you (it is in Case of Jyotish Gemstone therapy) then in addition to recording the refractive index, specific gravity and observation of species specific growth structures the coral should be tested with Infrared Spectroscopy. 

Infrared Spectroscopy of red coral also referred to as Raman and Photoluminescence spectroscopy is the best, most accurate and 100% accurate test and method of determination of a real coral from fake coral and a natural coral to a treated coral. 

Raman Spectroscopy answers both the questions that chemical tests don't without an iota of doubt. Raman Analysis is a non invasive and non destructive method that conclusively determines and answers both the question. The color causing agent in red coral is carotene and it can be easily identified because of its signature Raman Spectrum. Treated and dyed Corals do not exhibit Raman Spectrum associated with Carotene. 

Where to do Raman Spectroscopy?

Raman Spectroscopy is available at all major and accredited gem labs. It is available at most of the GIA Labs that test colored gemstones. In India Ramam Spectroscopy is offered by the Gemmological Institute of India (GII) located in Mumbai. 

Standard and good coral certification should always be done based on Raman Spectroscopy and the same should be mentioned on the certificate. 

The same facility is also available at the labs of the GIA (Gemological Institute 
of America) and other accredited labs. 

To be continued....