Loss of biodiversity:
The meat industry is threatening more than just trees. Many habitats are destroyed or altered as land is repurposed to raise livestock and cultivate soybeans. Many species are on the verge of extinction or are endangered as a result of the degradation of natural habitats.

According to estimates, agriculture occupies nearly half of the planet's habitable area, with grazing cattle, sheep, goats, and other livestock occupying roughly 77 percent of this.

Deforestation:
Meat production is linked to the destruction of indigenous land's forests, both directly and indirectly. Beef and soy farming, according to the WWF, is responsible for deforestation in the Amazon Rainforest and other parts of Brazil, Argentina, and Paraguay.

Large swaths of the Amazon are being deforested to make way for cattle farming and soybean growing for animal feed. Fire is frequently used to clean deforested areas. This process releases massive volumes of carbon dioxide (CO2) into the atmosphere while simultaneously eliminating a CO2 sink.

Emissions of greenhouse gases:
Meat eating contributes to greenhouse gas emissions such as methane, CO2, and nitrous oxide. Climate change, such as global warming, is exacerbated by these gases.

Degradation of the soil
Raising livestock frequently necessitates a large amount of grazing land. The intensive nature of this grazing, on the other hand, might result in bare soil, which is easily eroded due to wind or rain. As a result, productive fields become depleted, streams grow congested, and flooding becomes more likely.

Water Wastage
Meat production uses a lot of water, and beef is the most water-intensive food. Beef uses two times as much water as pork and four times as much as alternative protein sources like lentils.

The problem is exacerbated by the fact that soybean growing (for animal feed) is inefficient in terms of water use. Livestock production also adds to global water pollution by contaminating watercourses with manure.

Climate Change
The meat and dairy business accounts for around 14.5 percent of worldwide greenhouse gas emissions, according to the UN's Food and Agricultural Organization. The link between carbon emissions and climate change is evident, as we discussed in our essay on decreasing your carbon footprint.