This year, like every year, the 39 victims of the Heysel Stadium disaster are remembered through various initiatives, in Turin and beyond.

Starting from the pitch. All matches which involve Juventus will respect a minute’s silence before kick-off this weekend. The teams involved are therefore the women’s Under 15, 17 and 19 and men’s Under 14, 16 and 17

The off-the-pitch events began a few days ago in Cherasco with a ceremony in the gardens of the ‘Madonna Maria delle Grazie’ Sanctuary, where in the presence of the "Quelli di via Filadelfia" Association, the club was represented by the official banner.

Another event that commemorated the victims was held two days ago at the Juventus Museum together with the mayor of the city of Venaria Reale Fabio Giulivi and the municipal administration.

The day most of the initiatives are held is May 29. In Reggio Emilia, in front of the Heysel Monument by the Flemish sculptor Gido Vanlessen, a moment of remembrance with the president and founder of the ‘Per Non Dimenticare Heysel’ Committee of Reggio Emilia. Accompanying the event was an official letter from Club President Andrea Agnelli.

In Turin’s "Victims of the Heysel stadium" Square, the commemoration with Mayor Stefano Lo Russo, the regional councillor for Social Policies and Social-Health Integration Maurizio Marrone, the "Quelli di via Filadelfia" Association with relatives of the victims, and representing Juventus, Gianluca Pessotto and a player from our Academy.

At the Garden of via Galimberti in Grugliasco, the public reading of the names of the victims in the presence of Roberto Montà, Mayor of Grugliasco, representatives of the Piedmont Region, members of the ‘Alessio & Riccardo’ Official Fan Club of Grugliasco, representatives of family members of the victims and a representative of Juventus.

As always, the final moment of the Day of Remembrance takes place in Turin, at the city’s iconic Mole Antonelliana, illuminated in the evening with the inscription +39 Respect.