The regulatory body of European football has approved the addition of players signed by Russian or Ukrainian clubs.

European clubs have been given permission to add two more players to their rosters for UEFA competitions, who have been signed from Russian or Ukrainian clubs.

On Monday, the governing body revealed the revised rules, including a registration deadline of April 1 for new players.

FIFA had previously suspended international players' contracts with Ukrainian and Russian teams for the remainder of the 2021-22 season.
What's been said so far?

Players who have been signed by other European clubs can now be included to the Champions League, Europa League, or Europa Conference League squads.

A statement on the organisation's website read: "The UEFA Executive Committee today decided to amend the regulations of the 2021/22 UEFA Champions League, 2021/22 UEFA Europa League and 2021/22 UEFA Europa Conference League regulations, and to allow clubs to register a maximum of two new eligible players for the remaining matches in the current competitions by 1 April 2022 (24:00 CET) at the latest.

"Furthermore, the UEFA Executive Committee approved similar amendments to the 2021/22 UEFA Women’s Champions League regulations, to allow clubs to register a maximum of two new eligible players for the remaining matches in the current competition by 7 April 2022 (24:00 CET) at the latest, in line with the FIFA Regulations on the Status and Transfers of Players."

The statement continued: "In this regard, the UEFA Executive Committee decided to include a provision permitting clubs to register a maximum of two additional players, which were previously registered with a club affiliated to the UAF or the FUR and whose contracts have been suspended in accordance with Annex 7 of the FIFA RSTP.

"To be eligible to participate in the abovementioned UEFA competitions, any such new player shall, among others, be duly registered with the national association as playing for the club concerned in accordance with the associations’ own rules and those of FIFA."