The lashing rain at North London could not wash away the quality that was at display at The Emirates today. High-flying Gunners welcomed Klopp's impeccable Liverpool. In what promised to be a proper football clash between the two royalties of English football. The Kopites were hunting down the champions, City. Meanwhile, the Gunners were looking to solidify their grip on the fourth position. 

The match turned out to be a gripping affair, and Liverpool edged it by 2-0, with goals from Jota and Firmino. 
Here are the three talking points from the match. 

3 The Story Of Two Goalkeepers

Coming into this game, both the keepers were in excellent form. The Brazilian Alisson was ahead in terms of the no of clean sheets. But that could not overshadow Ramsdale's heroics between the sticks for the Gunners. 

With both the keepers sharing the spotlight, Alisson was supreme, whereas Ramsdale was average at best. Alisson's immaculate reflexes kept Liverpool's title hopes intact. Meanwhile, Ramsdale was at fault for the first goal. The England International was beaten rather nimbly by Jota, on his near post. Giving Liverpool the much needed boost.

2 The two Brazilians were the star of the show. 

The two Brazilians, Firmino and Martnelli, were the standout performers for their respective teams. Coming as a substitute in the second half, Bobby made an immediate impact scoring the all-important second goal for Liverpool. And provided Liverpool with the creativity they had been devoid of in the first half. Bobby also bridged the gap between the Kopites midfield and attack, with his vision. 

On the other hand, Martinelli gave Trent a run for his money. The Brazilian was direct in his approach and pressured the Liverpool backline to retreat backwards. With his pace and his silky footwork.

1 It was "Glory Glory Liverpool 

Liverpool is now just 1 point behind league leaders, Manchester City. This win also takes their unbeaten streak to nine games in the League. The Kopites also have a better goal difference as compared to City. Liverpool will be looking to dethrone the Champions at their own backyard when the two clash at the Etihad, in April.