Sometimes an underperformed actor can be saved by a powerful script and on the other end, a lagging script can completely rely on an actor. Exactly that’s what Gangaram, the Sarpanch (village head) of Jhundao, does for Sherdil:The Pilibhit Saga. The Mirzapur guy Pankaj Tripathi tries his best to engage us.

The film is inspired by a real incident happened in Pilibhit Tiger Reserve. What went wrong was its plain narrative, too plain to memorize any thick sequence from Sherdil. Most interesting one could be the philosophical pearls from his forest-mate Jim Ahmed while they were pooping in the dark forest – Like, vegetarian or non-vegetarian everything flushes out in the same fashion; you cannot distinguish caste, creed, or colour. In his typical dialog style, Ganagaram responds – I have never had a such profound conversation while pooping😊...

Satire does embellish the script. How Gangaram convinces his family and the villagers about his last three months in life and how well he needs to place them to become a leader or a martyr for his village is interesting and satirical. When he willingly decides to become prey for a tiger to save his starving village and attract it roaming in the forest for days, there is an absolute scope for a refreshing story and thrilling moments. Instead, Srijit Mukherji made an innocent Sarpanch and his naïve subjects too real sans impact on screen. But, it’s clear his intention was to make a good film casting Pankaj Tripathi in a role he rightly fits in. Despite a courtroom scene with a medium score, Pankaj wastes his time.

Any idea why Neeraj Kabi came as Jim Ahmed with stories of Jim Corbett. He is neither convinced of his role nor his dreadlocks. Lajo (Sayani Gupta) acting as Gangaram’s wife gave me a similar feel. Her make-up artist helped.

Shantanu Moitra’s music stood out. Read KK’s last song ‘Dhoop Paani Bahne De is in this film -beautiful, I must say. I felt the camera didn’t do any magic in forest scenes.

Watch it on Netflix for my favourite actor Pankaj Tripathi…