The Lancet Commission which was released on Tuesday highlights a palliative care model in an out patient clinic in Kerala as one of the examples were community can come together to ensure a persons last days are peaceful and dignified.
According to Indian Express , 
It was based in an outpatient clinic in a medical
college in Kozhikode. Although community
donations supported the work and volunteers
assisted, the project was based on a clinical model
of palliative care. The inadequacy of this model
soon became evident: people needing the care
could not travel to attend the clinic; family
members were losing a day's wages, on which they
depended heavily, to come to the clinic; and the
complex social, emotional, and spiritual needs
people described could not be met by a distant
clinical service, even with volunteer support.
Two years later, the team started moving out to
visit bed-bound patients in their homes. The next
paradigm shift took place in 2000 when the
initiative stated that dying from a life-limiting
illness is a social problem with medical aspects.

The Lancet  Commission calls for public attitudes to death and dying to be rebalanced, away from a narrow, medicalised approach towards a compassionate community model, where communities and families work with health and social care services to care for people dying.

Bringing together experts in health and social care, social science, economics, philosophy, political science, theology, community work, as well as patient and community activists, the Commission has analysed how societies around the world perceive death and care for people dying, providing recommendations to policy makers, governments, civil society, and health and social care systems.

In the very beginning the report brings home the paradox of dying in 21st century -it reads  

The story of dying in the 21st century is a story of paradox. While many people are overtreated in hospitals with families and communities relegated to the margins, still more remain undertreated, dying of preventable conditions and without access to basic pain relief. The unbalanced and contradictory picture of death and dying is the basis for this Commission. Read more

https://www.thelancet.com/journals/lancet/article/PIIS0140-6736(21)02314-X/fulltext