Nagaland 

In Legislative Assembly By-elections held on 17 April 2021 in Noksen constituency in Nagaland H. Chuba Chang of The Nationalist Democratic Progressive Party (NDPP) emerged victoriously.

‌30 April 2021 also witnessed Assembly By-elections wherein Keoshu Yimchunge of NDPP won in the Shamator Chessore constituency.

‌The next Nagaland Legislative Assembly election is scheduled to be held in or before March 2023 to elect all 60 members of the state's Legislative Assembly.

‌14 civilians were killed in Nagaland's Mon district on December 4 when Assam Rifles personnel opened fire on the group returning home from work in a pick-up van.

‌Mon district, the land of the Konyak tribe, was in deep shock by the brutal killings of innocent civilians — all in the age group of 25-37 years.

Another villager was killed the next day when security forces fired to disperse protesters, taking the overall toll to 14.

‌This killing of civilians by security forces in Mon district was a major event in 2021 with the shared aspiration of its people for an early solution to the decades-old political issue remaining a distant dream.

‌National People's Party (NPP) MP Agatha Sangma, a former minister in the UPA government, said the killing of 14 civilians in Nagaland "reminded all of the Malom massacre" in which over 10 civilians were shot dead in Imphal "and prompted a 28-year-old Irom Sharmila to go on a 16-year-long hunger strike."

‌Chief Minister Neiphiu Rio iterated that the Nagaland government is firm on the united resolution adopted in the state assembly on December 20, 2021, mandating the repeal of AFSPA from the state.

‌In solidarity win Konyak Nagas, the government cancelled the famous Hornbill festival which was supposed to be conducted in 2021 after 2 yrs.

‌It was a historic movement in Nagaland when opposition NPF joined the ruling coalition and made an opposition less government.

‌ The opposition submitted a letter to Chief Minister, Neiphlu Rio requesting an all-party government to resolve the political issue in Naga.
‌A new coalition is called as United Democratic Alliance.

‌All the party leaders of NDPP, BJP, NPF and independent MLA's and the legislator approved the nomenclature of the party.