A continued summary of testimonies by 58 trans adults on how access to gender-affirming care is lifesaving, as documented in an amicus brief in response to an Arkansas law that’d ban this healthcare for youth:

Attorney Jessie Lee Ann McGrath said: “just being able to live as myself has been one long period of euphoria. Being able to look in the mirror and being happy with the reflection I see has been magical. I no longer dislike the person looking back at me and that has made life worth living.”

Staff Attorney for Lambda Legal Carl Charles said: “The peace I have found by accessing this care now enables me to show up as my whole self, unencumbered by the fear and trepidation that flows from untreated gender dysphoria.”

Community Health Worker Destiny Clark explains: “The gender-affirming care I received saved my life. Prior to getting the care I needed I was depressed and oftentimes suicidal.”

Astrophysicist Dr. Rebecca Oppenheimer, the first scientist to study the atmospheric composition of a sub-stellar object outside our solar system said: “After I came out, my productivity, which was already quite high, went through the roof. My publication rate almost doubled, and my research and work with my students was vastly improved.”

Nurse Practitioner Rye Blum said that top surgery helped them be their best while providing for patients: “I could focus my attention and energy on what I was meant to focus my attention and energy on—the labor of healing and healthcare.” Blum added that it helped their practice of religion: “My religion and spiritual practices are a significant part of my life that are also impossible to explore and fully experience in an embodied way without being in the right body.”

Registered Nurse Harvey Katz shared the impacts of receiving care on family life: “I go to a job that I love. I own a home. I am loved by a truly incredible wife and I believe that I am valuable enough to receive that love. That ability to move forward with my life in a meaningful way is how gender-affirming medical care has benefited me.”