British Deputy High Commissioner, Chandigarh, Ms Caroline Rowett launches the Tuffman Chandigarh Half Marathon’s T-shirt on Sunday

The City Beautiful – Chandigarh’s very own UNESCO’s World Heritage Site, Capitol Complex – will be hosting the third edition of the Tuffman Chandigarh Half Marathon ‘Green Run’ on 25th September, 2022. The runners from different walks of life and from the remotest parts of India will be participating in the 21km, 10, 5km and 3km run.

On Sunday, Ms Caroline Rowett, British Deputy High Commissioner, Chandigarh, launched the Run’s T-Shirt – ULIMATE Tuffman T-Shirt – at Chandigarh Press Club. The event was attended by the running and media fraternity.

TUFFMAN is India's premiere endurance sports platform bringing Running, Cycling and Swimming events to sports enthusiasts.

All events are organized in various beautiful destinations and major cities in India, which everyone wishes to visit like Shimla (Mashobra), Leh, Goa, Kasauli, Jaipur, Andaman& Nicobar Islands, Gurugram, Chandigarh(Half Marathon, Triathlon, Stadium Run) at varied terrains to run on.

Runners in all categories are expected to participate in huge numbers at theTuffman ChandigarhHalf Marathon which will have 4 different kinds of run categories namely – Timed Half Marathon Run, Timed Internationally acclaimed 10 kms, Non Timed Fun Run 5 kms& 3 kms especially for ladies & children.

The city beautiful’s green run is against the use of single use plastic which is a bane for the environment. Eco – friendly paper cups will be used offering water & various liquids to the participants also food plates will be made of eco – friendly paper only. Participants will get to relish dairy products by Verka, goodies by Wow Skin Science, medical support would be looked after by Max Super Speciality Hospital, Mohali. Pixstory is the official social media platform for the run & technological aspect for the run is handled by Zapbuild.

The registrations for each of the run categories will be open until September10th onwww.tuffmanindia.com

 