 Nu metal since its development in the late 90s till today has been seen with utter revulsion by most metalheads. But does nu metal actually deserve the hate? Well for starters, nu metal is basically a metal subgenre that combines heavy metal rap. While, the mix alone may spell vomit while for others, everything is a matter of execution. Precursors to nu metal such as Faith No More and Rage Against The Machine who combined metal with a focus on experimental songwriting and rap, had a strong influence on its development.

From a writing perspective, nu metal is one of the most generic and brain dead forms of music, merely combining heavy downtuned riffs with angst driven edge filled lyrics with a rap groove with a horrible tendency to whine when talking about serious stuff, making them sound more stupid and funny than any sort of serious.

Now with that said, there have been some bands who carry the nu metal tag which you just cannot hate, such as Linkin Park and Deftones though both of them are far more on the experimental side and eventually dropped the nu metal thing entirely. Recently we’ve had bands like Bloodywood who have reinvented the whole genre by combining it with Indian folk music and some slamming metal similar to metalcore.

Then there is the lyrical content which screams “Oh my dad hits me, pls help me!” sounding just more whiny and edgy, feeling completely inauthentic. You can sing about your parents abusing you and legitimately sound dark, rather than whining about it, again example, Linkin Park, Bloodywood, even Korn who were the progenitors of nu metal. They have never been good, but at least they don’t whine.

Long story short, nu metal has come to increasingly fit its derogatory label ‘mallcore’ because the more it ‘evolved’, the less it became about songwriting, talent or passing a message. Rather, it became more and more about creating a downtuned distortion filled noise racket in order to compensate for the lack of ability to create either a great song structure or give a non crappy vocal performance which doesn’t scream ‘Don’t hit me daddy!’