Nobody is unknown to coronavirus and the havoc it has wreaked on humanity since 2020. Considered to have been one of the biggest pandemics in the history of humankind, the coronavirus induced COVID-19, is still infecting millions of people worldwide with its emerging variants.

As per an NCBI paper, the COVID-19 pandemic is the third recorded outbreak of a coronavirus, with the 2002 sudden acute respiratory syndrome (SARS, SARS-CoV-1 or SARS-CoV) and the 2012 Middle East respiratory syndrome (MERS or MERS-CoV) epidemics preceding it.


Viruses change over time. While most viruses do not change their properties, in many others important properties associated with the severity, performance of vaccines, therapeutic medicines, and diagnostic tools change drastically, posing a threat to mankind.

This is how variants are formed.

Depending on their risk to public health, the World Health Organisation (WHO) classifies coronaviruses as either variants of concern or variants of interest.

The variants of concern have a detrimental effect on the infected people. These variants have increased transmissibility, and virulence.

So far, five variants of coronavirus have been labelled as variants of concern:

Alpha, Beta, Gamma, Delta, and Omicron.

The Alpha variant, B.1.1.7, was first found in the United Kingdom in September 2020, as per WHO. The Beta variant, B.1.351, was found in South Africa in May 2020. The next highly transmissible variant, Gamma, P.1, was found in Brazil in November 2020.

"These three ‘variants of concern’ share some mutations, particularly in key regions of the spike protein involved in recognizing the host-cell ACE2 receptors that the virus uses to enter cells. They also carried mutations similar or identical to those spotted in SARS-CoV-2 in people with compromised immune systems whose infections lasted for months," says a Nature article

The fourth variant, Delta, B.1.617.2, or the super-Alpha, as researchers call it, was identified in India in October 2020. Epidemiologists say it was 60% more transmissible than the alpha variant. "Compared with other variants, including Alpha, Delta multiplies faster and to higher levels in the airways of infected individuals, potentially outpacing initial immune responses against the virus," the article says.

The Omicron, B.1.1.529, variant was traced in November 2021..

Source : TOI