The National Herald case seems to come back at regular intervals to haunt the Gandhi family. 

Last time, a Delhi court granted bail to Sonia Gandhi and Rahul Gandhi within five minutes of their appearance in the National Herald case. 

Congress leaders and workers from across the country had then descended on Delhi to express solidarity with the Gandhis. 

They had come to the national capital thinking that the court might send the Gandhis to jail. 

But their appearance in the court had turned into a big political tamasha and send the ruling BJP into a tizzy. 

The Congress had succeed in sending a message that the Gandhi family is supreme as the entire working committee lined up to show that the party stands fully behind them. 

The last thing the BJP could afford is to do anything that infuses fresh life into the Congress that is right now in the dumps. 

Congress leaders would be keen to score a political point. Sonia Gandhi has already made it clear that she would appear before the Enforcement Directorate (ED) while Rahul Gandhi has sought some time. 

The Congress would for sure go to the town accusing the BJP of indulging in vendetta politics. 

On its part, the BJP will highlight the move as it's way of dealing with such cases of alleged irregularities, and insist that the Gandhis are not above law and have to face the consequences for any wrongdoing. 

But it is very important for the ruling party to prove that. One thing people keep reminding Prime Minister Narendra Modi is his pre-2014 poll promise of taking action against Priyanka Gandhi Vadra's husband Robert Vadra for the alleged land grabbing deals. 

It has been eight years and the government has failed to make any move against him. 

The summoning of the Gandhis come ahead of the assembly elections in Gujarat and Himachal Pradesh and it remains to be seen if the Congress is able to make any political gains out of it or the BJP succeeds in projecting the grand old party and the Gandhis corrupt. 

All eyes are on this high-profile case now.