Vote Compass asked whether Australia should amend its constitution to establish a representative body or "Voice" to advise Parliament on laws and policies affecting Indigenous peoples.

There was clear support for the idea — overall 72 per cent of Australians agreed '"strongly" or "somewhat" that there should be constitutional change to give Indigenous Australians a greater say over their lives.

The push for a referendum was released as part of the Uluru Statement from the Heart, written in Central Australia at an historic gathering five years ago this month. 

Pitjantjatjara woman Sally Scales was at Uluṟu in 2017. She said there has been growing support for a Voice since then. 

"That was the smart thing about the Uluru statement, it wasn't gifted to the politicians," she said.  

The authors of the statement reunited in Far North Queensland in April. 

They called on the next Australian government to hold a referendum within the next two years, either in May 2023, or January 2024.

What do Australians think?

Since the last election in 2019, Vote Compass data has shown support for an Indigenous Voice in Parliament appears to be growing. 

Overall, in 2019, 64 per cent of voters supported the push for a referendum ahead of the last election. In the latest survey ahead of this year's election, 72 per cent supported the move.  

Labor voters are significantly more likely than Liberal-National voters to back a Voice, with 82 per cent supportive of a potential referendum. 

Vote Compass data suggests Coalition voters are divided on the issue, with 43 per cent of voters supportive of changing the constitution, while 38 per cent are opposed. 

The data reveals support among both groups of voters has risen over the past three years. Greens voters continue to be the party most supportive of the concept, with 92 per cent backing it.

Labor and Greens voters strongly support an Indigenous Voice to Parliament, Coalition voters split

Answers to the proposition: "Australia should amend its constitution to establish a representative Indigenous body to advise Parliament on laws and policies affecting Indigenous peoples" by voting intention.

https://www.abc.net.au/news/2022-05-04/indigenous-voice-to-parliament-vote-compass/101031774