By Ashutosh Dixit
.
“I was born with conjoined fingers in both my hands. Since childhood, people used to look at my deformed hands and tell me that I would be a failure in life. They would taunt and mock me. They would say I am physically challenged and will not succeed in life. Those words used to affect me a lot, and I decided to transform my deformed hands into a brush and paint,” says Aasutosh Panigrahi, a Delhi-based art and theatre enthusiast.

Aasutosh Panigrahi (artist) speaks to The Probe’s Ashutosh Dixit:- https://youtu.be/DPaw5b-uW18 

Born and raised in Odisha, Aasutosh suffers from a physical disability. His conjoined fingers in both hands were a subject of mockery by his conservative family, but that didn’t deter him from pursuing his dreams. Embracing his impairment, he turned his deformity into an opportunity, transformed his hands into a brush, and started painting. Using those very hands, he painted the world’s largest indoor mural painting, and his name gained entry in the Guinness book as a World Record Holder.

“I have won the Guinness Records twice. I created a 98 metres long mural painting which was the world’s longest indoor mural painting. Sixty artists in Australia got together and broke my record in one and a half years. After that, I broke their record within seven days and seven nights. We worked non-stop to achieve this feat. Nobody could break that record. Now, I have again broken my own record by making a painting of 26,000 square feet within seven days and seven nights. My team and I really worked hard to achieve this milestone.”

Aasutosh won the Guinness Records first in 2003 when he painted the world’s longest indoor mural painting at the Golden Palms Spa and Resorts in Bangalore. The Mural painting was 98 metres long and was completed within 28 days. In 2004, his record was broken by a group of Australian artists when they created the world’s largest indoor mural painting. 

Read the full story here:- https://theprobe.in/i-turned-my-deformed-hands-into-a-brush-and-painted-the-worlds-longest-mural-painting-aasutosh-panigrahi/