NWSL club Orlando Pride have traded forward Sydney Leroux to Angel City for a natural first round pick in the 2024 NWSL Draft and $75,000 in Allocation Money. The trade also includes an additional $10,000 in 2022 and $10,000 in 2023 for Orlando should Leroux meet the performance based criteria. 

Leroux’s exit from Orlando coincides with that of Amy Turner. On June 17, Orlando Pride bought out Turner’s contract. Pride’s head coach Amanda Cromwell and assistant coach Sam Greene are currently suspended and are on an administrative leave on the recommendation of the NWSL and NWSL Players Association Joint Investigation Team, pending the results of a current investigation.

This is like a homecoming for Sydney as she attended UCLA and was a part of their soccer team - “It really feels like I'm coming home, between going to UCLA and living in LA. Angel City is truly putting women's soccer on the map in Los Angeles and it shows if you invest in women, great things will happen. I am excited to be a part of that.”

Born in Surrey, Canada, Leroux played for Vancouver Whitecaps in 2005 and 2011 editions of the USL W-League. She also played for Seattle Sounders in the W-League in the summer of 2012; her teammates at Seattle at that time were Alex Morgan, Megan Rapinoe and Hope Solo. Leroux has also played for Boston Breakers (folded in 2018), Seattle Reign (now OL Reign), Western New York Flash (dissolved in 2018) and FC Kansas City (dissolved in 2017). 

She joined Orladno Pride in 2018 and scored 18 goals during her time in Florida. Now, a member of the expansion franchise Angel City, Leroux’s arrival will surely help the team as the their star player - Christen Press sustained an injury in Angel City’s 3-2 win against Racing Louisville; Press scored a goal in the first half but was subbed off in the 66th minute. Two days later, it was revealed that Christen had suffered an ACL tear. 

Angel City are currently sixth in the NWSL table and will face Portland Thorns on Saturday.