For weeks now, it has been reported that the indirect nuclear talks between Iran and the U.S. have been one roller-coaster ride. Hopes have been raised one week only to be squashed the next week. 

But the move by the Biden administration to waive a few sanctions on Iran’s civilian atomic program in an effort to attract Iran to get back to the 2015 negotiated deal between the two, has been seen as a first solid indication that the talks are on the right track.

But the hopes have been belied in the past and hence everybody is cautious. In the meantime, European countries have asked Iran to take this “opportunity” and move forward on the talks. of the U.S. waiving some sanctions on Iran’s civilian atomic program in an effort to entice Tehran back to the 2015 nuclear deal. 

Moscow’s ambassador to the U.N. in Vienna, Mikhail Ulyanov, welcomes the U.S. waiver decision as “a move in the right direction.” “It will help expedite restoration of #JCPOA and mutual return of # U.S. and #Iran to compliance with 2015 deal. It also can be seen as an indication that the #ViennaTalks have entered the final stage,” he writes on Twitter. (https://www.timesofisrael.com/liveblog-february-05-2022/)

The Iranian news agency, IRNA, is reporting that the Iranian Foreign Minister Hossein Amirabdollahian, while expressing satisfaction at the lift of sanctions on the civilian nuclear program, has said that “guarantee and verification” are among other issues in the Vienna Talks. Amirabdollahian is demanding guarantees that the U.S. will not withdraw from the 2015 deal again as it did during Donald Trump’s regime. The U.S. has said that it is not willing to give any such guarantees. (https://en.irna.ir/news/84639291/Verification-among-Iran-s-main-issues-in-Vienna-Talks)

According to analysts, success in Vienna will be important for both countries. While the Biden administration  is looking for major foreign policy success and bring down tensions in the Middle East, Iran, which has been facing crippling sanctions because of its nuclear program, is also looking for a way out of crippling sanctions against it.  (https://www.nytimes.com/2022/01/12/world/middleeast/us-iran-nuclear-deal.html)