A recently leaked document in the social media indicates a secret pact between China and Solomon Islands in the Pacific Ocean which would allow Beijing to deploy security personnel in the islands and may eventually open the doors to a Chinese naval or army base.   

The document states that Solomon Islands, if required, may request China to send police, military or law enforcement personnel “to assist in maintaining social order, protecting people’s lives and property.” It also stresses that “neither party” will disclose the “co-operation of information to a third party,” if China provides “assistance on other tasks.”

The secret document was flashed online by political opponents of the prime minister Manasseh Sogavare who have been opposing the treaty. The pact has alarmed Australia and New Zealand, the Pacific nations, already worried about China’s growing presence in the region. The move is also worrisome for the US, a key ally of the island nations.  

The vague language of the document indicates that the Sogavare can call China if he feels the government is insecure and as a favour he would allow China to set up a naval base in the islands.  

Mathew Wale, Sogavare’s political opponent in the parliament, thinks that the secret treaty has nothing to do with the island’s security, but is meant to ensure the prime minister’s political survival in the upcoming election next year. Just five months ago, protesters had attacked the prime minister’s residence and businesses in the island’s  Chinatown over China’s growing influence in the country. Now they fear the secret deal would ensure Sogavare’s reinstatement and ruin democratic environment in the islands.

Australia also feels concerned because they had provided Sogavare’s government assistance during the November riots and had deployed security personnel there to maintain peace till 2023. Sogavare’s switch towards China worries Australia’s neighbouring islands New Zealand too. Both these countries have seen how the geopolitical balance is getting tilted towards China as Beijing has now increasing influence on Fiji and Kiribati, two other island nations in the Pacific.      

READ MORE

https://www.nytimes.com/2022/03/24/world/asia/china-solomon-islands-security-pact.html

https://www.aljazeera.com/news/2022/3/25/australia-alarm-over-china-security-deal-with-solomon-islands

https://www.abc.net.au/news/2022-03-25/australia-pm-reacts-china-solomon-islands-draft-military/100938958