Doctor on skates – Infertility specialist from Chennai Dr Aarathy rules the rink, wins triple gold
Away from the limelight, Dr Aarathy Kasturiraj, an embryologist from Chennai, has completely dominated the skating rink in the ongoing 36th National Games in Ahmedabad.   
Representing Tamil Nadu, the 28-year-old doctor won three gold in speed skating and by the time the Games will end on October 12, she is likely to be the most successful athlete of the state across disciplines and will be among the country’s handful athletes, who will be able to grab three or more gold medals in this edition of the multi-discipline games.  
“It feels really nice and I am extremely grateful to be winning three gold at the National Games here. It’s an honour to be one of the few athletes winning three or more gold medals in the Games. This would have definitely not been possible because of the support of my parents, sister and husband. I owe a lot to them,” says Dr Aarathy. “I really worked hard for the Games and I am thankful to my coach, fitness trainer, strength & conditioning coach, skating federation and to everyone who are part of this journey.”  
Dr Aarathy has a long international career, spanning over one-and-half-decades and it’s still going strong. Since 2018, she hasn’t lost a single race in the national circuit.
After MBBS, she did a specialization in embryology and currently practicing at her mother’s hospital. She is a perfect example of balancing profession and passion.
“It’s definitely not easy managing your profession and skating, but one thing is for sure that it’s not impossible. If you really wanted to do something and follow your dreams, nothing can stop you. Skating is my passion and I would do anything to skate. It’s a roller coaster journey, but I was prepared for it and I am enjoying it,” says Dr Aarathy, who represented India in the 2018 Asian Games.
 “It’s a beginning and I still have a few more goals to achieve. My next target is Asian Games that is coming next year and hopefully I will make India proud at the continental games.”