Both Kylian Mbappe and Luis Campos had been expected to work together at Real Madrid next season, but, ultimately, they will do so at Paris Saint-Germain.

As recently as the weekend of May 13 to May 15, they had the intention and the desire to be at Real Madrid. But, by Friday May 20, the player already had it in his mind that he'd stay at PSG.

To understand the keys to this story, it's important to go through each of the details.

Luis Campos' relationship with Real Madrid

Luis Campos, on behalf of Florentino Perez, had been assisting Real Madrid in their efforts to sign Mbappe for almost two years.

Campos and Perez have known each other since 2012, when Jose Mourinho was Real Madrid coach and Campos was part of his coaching staff, first as an analyst and scout for young talent and then as an assistant.

When Mourinho took over at Porto, the club actually met with both men on the same day before opting to give the job to 'The Special One', but both men have always maintained great respect for each other and this is why Mourinho wanted Campos with him at Real Madrid.

Campos has coached more modest sides in the Portuguese top division, but has now built up an excellent reputation for his work in recruitment.

Luis Campos' relationship with Mbappe

Campos has known Mbappe and his family since the forward was 14 years old, when he "dreamed" of one day playing for Real Madrid and was a fan of the club.

At the time, Mbappe was in the Monaco youth team and Campos had been brought into the club's sporting department by Dmitry Rybolovlev.

The young Mbappe had a conflict in his team at the time and Campos made a key intervention, which Mbappe recounts in his comic book.

As a result of that episode, the player, the director and Mbappe's mother consolidated a relationship of friendship and trust that has lasted to this day. He is a friend of the family, a spiritual and sporting advisor.

This brings us to the photos that come at the top of this article, which are from March 8, from a private dinner the night before the Real Madrid vs PSG Champions League quarter-final.

Campos dined in a restaurant in Madrid with Fayza Al-Amari, Mbappe's mother, and a friend of hers. The reason was simple: Campos and the Mbappe family trust each other.

Read more
https://www.marca.com/en/football/real-madrid/2022/06/09/62a210eb46163f61a18b45f4.html