On a journey of 1,800 km that took us to the scene of six hate crimes committed in Uttar Pradesh over seven years, we found no convictions, unending trials—despite Supreme Court guidelines that they be completed in six months—eyewitnesses wilting under pressure and scared, frustrated victims exploring out-of-court settlements. Of the 136 accused charged by the police since 2015, all are free on bail—except a Muslim man.

Soi Village, Bulandshahr district (UP): On 10 March, as it became clear that Yogi Adityanath would be the first chief minister of India’s most populous state to get a second term in four decades, it appeared that one of his party’s electoral planks had worked.

On 16 February, Prime Minister Narendra Modi addressed an election rally in the central Uttar Pradesh (UP) district of Sitapur and urged voters to re-elect his Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in the 2022 assembly elections because it had brought suraksha (security) to the state’s more than 200 million people.

“Do you want security or not? Should you lead a secure life or not? When there is no rule of law, my poor people get squished,” said Modi.  

Just before the BJP swept to victory for a second consecutive term,  Article 14 travelled to the scenes of six hate crimes reported since 2015 in this state, covering  five districts and 1,800 km in eight days, to see how the suraksha claim played out in villages where communal polarisation and identity politics sparked mob lynchings, religious violence and riots.

We met victims, families of those murdered and their lawyers, some of the accused, scrutinised dozens of pages of legal documents to understand what happened after these hate crimes, widely publicised at the time but forgotten since.

At the six scenes of crime—the villages of Soi and Saunda Habibpur in Bulandshahr, Purbaliyan in Muzaffarnagar, Kasganj city, Madhapur village in Hapur and Bissada village of Gautam Buddh Nagar—we found no one had been convicted, and the 135 accused in all cases out on bail. 


Read more- https://article-14.com/post/as-yogi-returns-families-of-up-hate-crime-victims-narrate-long-fearful-tryst-with-his-justice-system--622a04432a983