Highbury was home to The Arsenal for 93 years between 1913 and 2006. It also hosted international matches for England (and during the 1948 Olympic games), as well as other sports such as cricket, and baseball. It hosted the World Heavyweight Boxing title fight between Henry Cooper and Muhammad Ali in 1966. It is the stadium at which Arsenal have celebrated all their Premier League titles. Highbury had a capacity of around 40,000 which would prove unsustainable for a club of Arsenal’s size and support. The decision to construct a new 60,000-capacity stadium was mostly based on this consideration. 
The original Highbury stadium saw two major reconstructions in its lifetime. The East and West stands were completed in the 1930s. The second restructuring started in the late 80s and saw the addition of executive boxes and the North Bank Stand. There was no avenue to make further expansions to the stadium. Highbury was well-known for its small but extraordinarily well-maintained pitches. Groundsmen at Arsenal regularly won the Premier League’s Groundsman of the Year Award. 
Arsenal said goodbye to Highbury in the 2005-06 season, with the home game against Wigan in May 2006 being the last. It was the 2010th game at the stadium. Arsenal went into the game needing to better Spurs’ result to qualify for the Champions League but found themselves 2-1 behind. Captain and all-time top scorer Thierry Henry came to the rescue with a hat trick. After scoring the last goal ever at the stadium Henry kissed the ground. He explained it as his ‘goodbye to the stadium…a special place’. The burgundy and gold home kit from that season is remembered as the ‘Highbury Farewell’ kit. Since his retirement, Arsene Wenger has lamented how even a decade after the move Arsenal’s ‘soul’ seemed to have been left at Highbury. It is difficult to recreate the close-knit atmosphere of old stadiums now due to security and medical regulations about the distance between the crowd and the pitch. The season featured a succession of ‘themed matchdays’ celebrating historic achievements at Highbury. After closure, various parts of the stadium including posts, pieces of the pitch, etc were auctioned off.