
Students of the JD Institute of Fashion Technology and JD School of Design, Goa enthralled the audiences at the “JD Design Awards 2022” night which was held to showcase their best creations at the Panjim Gymkhana recently.
The student designers  worked under the theme of “Sync” with nature and came up with multiple concepts that spoke of a futuristic world where technology and ecosystem was intertwined with each other.
The student designers experimented with various fabrics, material and strengthened the idea of a healthy and equal living. The following seven student designers won awards in their respective categories. “Natividade” by Denisha Ann Auban Myrabo Fernandes (Best Pret Wear Collection), “Dare to be the Dandelion” by Anamika Ishwar Raj Chauhan (Best Pret Wear Collection), “Raponn” by Britney Pacheco (Best Sustainability Collection), “Nature’s Footprint” by Jezril Martins (Special Jury Award), “Only One Earth” by Hrutika Bhalchandra Salgaonkar (Sustainable Pret wear),  “After the after party” by Vipul Vishnu Gaonkar (Best Creative Concept) and “ Flourish” by Dionne Joanna Dias (Best Designer Collection)
Speaking on the occasion, Nealesh Dalal, Managing Trustee, JD Educational Trust said, “The Goa edition of JD Design Awards 2022 has been a huge success. The challenge was given to the budding designers to understand where the world is headed and the right path they can adopt for overall growth. JD Institute of Fashion Technology and JD School of Design, Goa with their advanced global curriculum ensures that we produce designers who understand today's world with their imagination.”
The JD institute has a legacy since 1988 and over the years has given the Indian design industry many prominent names. Currently, admissions are open for the undergraduate courses in Fashion and Interior Design and Advanced Diploma courses in both the domains along with Diploma courses in Fashion Design, Interior Design, Fashion Photography and Makeup and Hairstyle Artistry.
The JD Institute of Fashion Technology and JD School of Design, Goa is affiliated to Goa University, Singhania University and a host of international colleges and have associations with the London College of Fashion, UK; The Indo French Chamber of Commerce and Industry, The Chelsea College of Art and Design, UK. 