The future of football appears bright, with many young talents emanating, and it is clear that football has a bright outlook of it, with many young talents making their mark in football history books. Football is evolving with technology, and every day we see a new player emerge from a small club and stamp his authority.
And in this article, we predict who will be in the world's best XI in 2025. In the following article, we will discuss those talented players who have a promising future.
 
Goalkeeper- Inaki Pena
Pena has yet to make his debut, but the young goalkeeper's future appears bright. The player progressed from the Barcelona B team to Galatasaray on loan before returning to Barcelona in 2022. He will be an important player for Xavi, but he has yet to make his debut because Stegen is the first-choice keeper.
However, because he is a La Masia product, the opportunity will come soon, and he will make a statement once he is between the sticks.
 
Right-back- Reece James
Reece James, who is only 22 years old, has established himself as one of Chelsea's best fullbacks. Under new manager Potter Graham, the player has been the first-choice right-back and has made a significant impact with his offensive and defensive abilities. He is quick and knows how to use his strength effectively. One of his best performances came in the Champions League final against Manchester City, where he handled Sterling admirably.
The player will undoubtedly win numerous individual awards and make a significant contribution to Chelsea's success.
Centre back- Ronaldo Araujo
Araujo's rise has been positive; he came from Barcelona B and has since become the club's best center-back; he is known for his physicality and pace. Araujo is a tenacious player and a versatile player who can also play right-back. And he is the most pertinent defender under Xavi, and he will unarguably succeed Gerrard Pique.
Barcelona is one of the best defensive units in the world when he is present, and he is also great in the air. He is a threat to opponents, and he has a bright future ahead of him.