Pixstory User Question
Why do some people tend to loose weight easily while others get frustrated doing diets without any results . 

Answer
I can sense and feel the helplessness and hopelessness when it comes to weight management/ diet management..It's disheartening and sad.
The first thing is don't feel guilty it's not your fault. I can understand the dejection one feels when one is not getting desired results or the benefits of the efforts interms of weight management. Some people are gyming/ exercising, doing everything that's right by the book. We take morning water, doing intermittent fasting, eating in eight hours, eating till 6/7 pm -This is working for many many but not others.
We blame lifestyle changes but how many of us are really following bad lifestyles.The ‘calories in and Calories out’ concept is are not working for some. 
We were taught that with negative calorie balance you will lose weight. But over the years we have realised it's not simply an arithmetic of calories.
Some people are counting hours in the gym breaking down hundreds of calories but the results are still dismal.
The point I am making here is the science of weight management is still evolving and we are learning every single day. So the missing piece is understanding food as a whole. We thought we had identified the nutrients, the carbs, the vitamins and minerals but now we know there are more nutrients and more non nutrients in the composition of food .
The problem with understanding of obesity is solved when we start understanding our food. We need to have food coaching, food literacy. Cant reduce food to the nutritional elements and the non nutritional elements that we know of. 
We have to understand food and it’s properties and get help from our traditional wisdom. And understanding who you are. Are you a Vat/Pit/Kaf and what works for u. 
As saying goes one size doesn't fit all. 
What works for one doesnt work for the other. Fundamentally X diet doesn’t work for everyone and any diet will fail if it doesn’t become way of life.