By Vivek Gupta
Chandigarh, India’s first planned city and famously known as city beautiful, has been trending nationally for the last 24 hours as soon as the MMS leak episode inside Chandigarh University rocked the nation on Sunday.
But the problem is that the city and its main public university have nothing to do with the incident.
Many, who don't belong to this part of the world, knowingly or unknowingly associated Chandigarh University with the "main" Panjab University located in Chandigarh.
Several teachers in Panjab University confirmed to NewsDrum that they were getting frenzy calls from many of their known outside the state asking about the incident.
They said they had a tough time explaining that the episode occurred in a private university, which smartly borrowed Chandigarh's name but it has nothing to do with the city or Panjab University.
Surprisingly there was no objection from the Chandigarh administration, a centrally run union territory when the university came up in 2012 by the act of the Punjab state legislature.
This also compromised the tradition that a country has for long. It has been a well-established tradition to name public and famous universities after the city in which they are located.
This is why the first universities of colonial and Independent India were called Calcutta University, Bombay University, Madras University, Lucknow University, Delhi University, and so on.
Here, the private campus took the advantage to call itself after a city when neither its location nor governance or any other aspect is even remotely related to Chandigarh.
The campus of the private university is located 40 km in Gharuan village in Punjab's Kharar Tehsil in neighbouring Mohali district.
The promoters of the private university harped upon Chandigarh's goodwill because the city’s main Panjab University, which had its roots in undivided Punjab in Lahore, chose to stay with its original legacy rather than adopting the city's name after getting shifted to Chandigarh in 1956.
Read more: https://www.newsdrum.in/national/how-mms-leak-incident-in-chandigarh-university-turned-into-an-awful-faux-pas-for-city-beautiful-91570.html
