Well, here’s another reminder of doomsday- “ Only One Earth”. I can continue to rage on about this topic- forests are burning, wildlife is dying, oceans have more plastic than fish in them, the earth is literally burning down, NFTs are only making it worse, COP26 put on a good showcase of “environmental diplomacy” ( here's why ) yada yada- you know, the usual school assembly stuff( laws to actually curb climate change? in this economy ? *cue flabbergasted gasp*)

Here’s the gist though- stop dwelling in the sad gap, there are a multitude of habits we can incorporate to lower our carbon footprints on a personal level( the rest of this), and at least for those of us who can afford eco-friendly products( bags, deodorants, clothes, sanitary napkins): here’s a reminder- do that ! ( for understanding the dire, life-as-we-know-it-threatening consequences of not understanding the urgency to save our planet- open a third grade social studies textbook please). Donations are always an option obviously( to environmental organisations such as WWF, the Rainforest Alliance and Oceana ), and so is spreading the word about this phenomenon, like I am ! Eventually, with enough petitions and years of delaying negotiations and justice, our government  is bound to comply!

This time,“The 2022 World Environment Day campaign calls for collective, transformative action on a global scale to celebrate, protect and restore our planet,” UNEP said, so here’s some actual ways to help:
 Remember that shirt you bought last month? Don’t do that as often ! The fashion industry is the second-largest industrial polluter, accounting for 10% of global pollution, ranking higher than emissions from air travel! ( the “throw-away” culture of fast fashion not only results in pollution but also exploits workers and harms animals)
Use less hot water : It’s responsible for an average of 875kg of CO2 per household a year! Easy changes you can make are taking quicker showers.
Eat less meat and dairy: Switching to a plant-based diet can reduce food emissions by 73%! 

Here’s all for right now. Leave notes to feed my validation please ! <3////