By Shailesh Khanduri

Birmingham: Mizoram teenager Jeremy Lalrinnunga and Kolkata's Achinta Sheuli maintained country's dominance in the weightlifting arena pushing India to top six on the medal table on day three of the Commonwealth Games, here Sunday.

Making his debut at a multi-discipline Games at the senior level, the 19-year-old reigning Youth Olympic champion battled excruciating muscle cramps but shattered two records en route the gold medal in the men's 67kg category.

This was India's second gold at CWG after Tokyo Olympics silver medallist Mirabai Chanu bagged the first gold medal for India on Saturday.

Weightlifter Achinta Sheuli (73kg) from Kolkata lived up to his top billing as he clinched India's third gold in the Commonwealth Games here.

Favourite to win the event, debutant Sheuli heaved 313kg (143kg+170kg) to grab the gold at NEC Hall here on Sunday.

The Manpreet Singh-led Indian men's hockey team also kicked off their campaign on a rousing note, thrashing Ghana 11-0 in a pool B match.

India also resumed their rivalry against Pakistan on the cricketing field with a facile eight-wicket win in a rain-curtailed women's T20 contest at Edgbaston.

In boxing, world champion Nikhat Zareen stormed into quarterfinals, while there was disappointment in store for Shiva Thapa who crashed out in the round of 16.

India also remained in medal contention in table tennis, squash and lawn balls entering into their respective quarterfinals.

There was however disappointment in store in triathlon, as the quartet of Adarsh Muralidharan Nair Sinimol, Pragnya Mohan, Vishwanath Yadav and Sanjana Sunil Joshi clocked a total time of 1:31:43 to finish 10th among 12 teams.

In cycling too, Ronaldo Laitonjam lost out in pre-quarterfinals of men's sprint event, while Indian gymnasts Yogeshwar Singh and Ruthuja Nataraj signed off at 15th and 17th spots in the men's and women's all-around artistic gymnastics finals respectively.

Achinta Sheuli wins third Gold for India

Favourite to win the event, debutant Achinta Sheuli heaved 313kg (143kg+170kg) to grab the gold at NEC Hall.

Malaysia's Erry Hidayat Muhammad, who gave Sheuli a tough competition, ended as the second best lifter in the event. He had a best effort of 303kg (138kg+165kg).

Full story:- https://www.newsdrum.in/sports/commonwealth-games-day-3-roundup-jeremy-lalrinnunga-and-achinta-sheuli-hit-gold-india-climb-to-sixth-in-medal-table-68556.html