We will not be free if others are not free in us. Perhaps this is an issue related to the mental and psychological development of human beings, that at one stage we do not allow others to live, believe, think, lifestyle, identity and be in their own way and choice. When we see others stepping out of the realm for which we have a permitted territory, we immediately protest, a protest that takes the form of negative judgment, criticism, misplaced opinion, anger, biting the tongue, Insults, and even interference and harassment. We simply sit in the seats of judges, prosecutors, police, and the like, so as not to allow others to act, be, or talk to us outside our confines.
 Several people with similar beliefs, as gathered, practically find the power to impose their mental do's and don'ts on a larger population and imprison people. In this case, it is difficult to distinguish between the obstructions and internal problems of the individual, which arise from immaturity, and the ethics and law of the public sphere, which is based on objective interests. In this situation, it is difficult to talk about what is considered public objective interest, because it is difficult to separate objective matters from mental matters. How can you talk about the freedoms and rights of individuals, as an objective and public issue, when people consider the way of being, identity and existence of others to be detrimental to their freedom and peace?
It is not at this level of mental development that people choose to oppress others verbally and verbally, but rather the different behavior and speech of others really bothers them mentally, they suffer when others are in unauthorized realm. They see mentally, it is difficult and sometimes impossible to distinguish between objective harm and what is purely mental and arises from one's mentality.
Enjoying true inner freedom is possible when we are not bothered by the way others live and let go, let the world be as it is and let people live and live as they want. This rise is a profound transformation.

Continue on notes