Zambia is the first landlocked country in Africa to qualify for a World Cup in either gender, while Morocco became the first-ever Arab country to qualify for the Women's World Cup.


Along with African teams Morocco and Zambia, Asian teams Philippines and Vietnam have also secured their spot for the final rounds. It's the first time the Philippines qualified for any of the FIFA tournaments. Vietnam being taken part in the Men's tournament before, is qualifying for the first time in women's event. 


Denmark made their first appearance in 16 years after missing out in three consecutive tournaments, with their last appearance being in 2007, while Costa Rica returned to the tournament after missing the previous tournament in 2019. Total 32 teams will compete for the prestigious title in 2023. 


Qualified teams so far:


Asian Confederation (AFC) 6 slots


1. Australia (H)

2. Japan

3. South Korea

4. China

5. Phillipines

6. Vietnam



The Confederation of North, Central America and Caribbean Association Football (CONCACAF)

4 Slots


1. USA (Defending champions)

2. Jamaica

3. Canada

4. Costa Rica


African Confederation (CAF)

4 Slots


1. Morocco

2. Zambia

3. Nigeria

4. South Africa



Union of European Football Associations (UEFA)

11 Slots


1. Sweden

2. Spain

3. France

4. Denmark


Rest of the slots will be filled as per the results of the ongoing UEFA Euro tournament. 


Oceania Football Confederation (OFC )

1 Slot


1. New Zealand (H)



The South American Football Confederation (CONMEBOL)

3 Slots


Will be filled as per the results of the ongoing Women's Copa. 


Inter Confederation Play Off tournament

3 Slots


A ten-team play-off tournament will decide the final three spots at the Women's World Cup. The play-off slot allocation is as follows:


AFC : 2 slots

CAF : 2 slots

CONCACAF : 2 slots

CONMEBOL : 2 slots

OFC : 1 slot

UEFA : 1 slot



2023 edition will be the first FIFA tournament to be hosted across multiple confederations (with Australia in the AFC and New Zealand in the OFC).Neither country had previously hosted a senior FIFA tournament. 