A farmer has revealed the hidden meaning behind the red-tipped bananas.

The red wax indicates the bananas are grown using the Ecoganic farming method so they are free of harmful pesticides.

The bananas are dipped in a bright red food grade wax to let shoppers know they are different from every other variety.

Established in 1998 by Australian banana growers Frank and Dianne Sciacca, the farming method uses the natural ecosystem to sustainably grow sweet and creamy fruits as nature intended.

“When you see the red wax tip on bananas, you can know that they have been farmed in harmony with nature,” Frank said.

“Nature has developed over hundreds of thousands of years to keep things in balance. Rather than rely on chemicals, we choose to harness everything nature gives us to grow our bananas slowly and with respect.

“This respect shows up in the product and you can taste the difference.”

Rather than relying on chemicals, both synthetic and organic, the method employs all of nature’s creatures on the farm to grow bananas slowly, carefully and sustainably.

Traditional farming uses chemicals that sterilise the soil and kill insects, leaving the crop dependent on synthetic fertilisers for its source of nutrition.

The practice can have a negative impact on the soil, organisms, insects, birds, larger wildlife and the waterways.

“We wanted to farm differently, with nature at the heart of what we do,” Frank explained.

“Nature keeps everything in balance, and understanding the natural capital you have available to you enables you to get rid of all the harmful chemicals.

“The result is a farming method that is good for the environment and at the same time produces far superior bananas.”

Testament to these unique farming methods, Red Tip are the only bananas endorsed by the Great Barrier Reef Foundation.

Having grown up diving on the Great Barrier Reef, Frank witnessed the degradation of the Reef and the changes to the ecosystem.

The use of products that had a minimal impact on the ecosystem but allowed continual ecological improvement if used correctly enabled Frank to start rebuilding and fortifying the soil to provide a thriving habitat.