By SHINJINEE MAJUMDER & INDRADEEP BHATTACHARYYA
Violence erupted during Nabanna Abhijan, the Bharatiya Janata Party’s protest march to West Bengal state secretariat ‘Nabanna‘ on September 13 as police in various parts of Kolkata and the adjoining Howrah district tried to stop the march. The protest rally was launched at a time when a number of Trinamool Congress leaders, state ministers and government officials are facing probes by central agencies over allegations of corruption. In July end, Rs 50 crore in cash and jewellery was recovered from the apartment of a ‘close aide’ of former education and industries minister Partha Chatterjee accused in the School Service Commission scam.
Parts of Kolkata and Howrah resembled a battlefield in the late afternoon of September 13 as the protesters clashed with police. The cops used water cannons and tear gas and resorted to lathi-charge as BJP leaders and members tried to break barricades put up by police. TV coverage of the march showed a police jeep engulfed in fire at Chittpore crossing in central Kolkata. A few metres from the spot, an assistant commissioner of Kolkata police, Debjit Chatterjee, was allegedly assaulted by BJP members carrying party flags, with rods and sticks.
In the backdrop of this, a video of a group of people (one of them wearing a skullcap) pelting objects into the distance went viral on Twitter with the claim that Trinamool Congress party workers were pelting stones at police during the rally.
Amit Malviya, in-charge of BJP’s national information & technology department, tweeted a 23-second clip from news channel Aaj Tak’s coverage of the rally, where the skull-capped man was circled out in red, and captioned it: “Mamata Banerjee sent TMC cadres to pelt stones at the police so that later BJP could be blamed for it…”. In the video, the reporter says, “Look at how the demonstrators are pelting stones. The police vehicle that you see on screen was torched by the demonstrators”. There is an apparent insinuation that the people seen on the screen are the ones who set the car on fire. (Archive)
Read the full story here:- https://www.altnews.in/are-tmc-cadres-seen-pelting-stones-at-cops-in-video-shared-by-bjp-leaders-after-nabanna-march/?utm_source=website&utm_medium=social-media&utm_campaign=newpost