The Australian Monarchist League has called on the services of former Liberal senator Eric Abetz as it aims to fight the Labor government’s plans for a republic.
The staunch monarchist lost his seat at the May federal election after being demoted to third spot on the party’s ticket, ending a 28-year senate career.
The Australian Monarchist League on Wednesday announced Abetz had been appointed chairman of the group.
“Mr Abetz has enjoyed a sterling career spanning 28 years in the Australian Senate,” national chair, Philip Benwell, said.
“(He) will bring to the monarchist cause the same fighting spirit that has characterised his entire political career for nearly three decades.”
The Albanese government has said it would work towards establishing a republic.
Labor’s 2021 national platform stated the party “supports and will work toward establishing an Australian republic with an Australian head of state”.
Anthony Albanese has spoken at events held by the Australian Republican Movement, telling a 2019 dinner “a modern Australian republic is an idea whose time has come”.
Matt Thistlethwaite has been appointed as assistant minister for the republic and has been charged with overseeing Australia’s transition.
Labor has said it planned to hold a referendum on having an Australian head of state to replace the Queen if it was elected for a second term.
Thistlethwaite has said his principal role is to educate the Australian people about the current constitutional arrangements with the British monarch as head of state.
“As Queen Elizabeth comes to the twilight of her reign, it’s a good opportunity for a serious discussion about what comes next for Australia,” the assistant minister has said.
“Literally hundreds of Australians could perform the role, so why wouldn’t we appoint an Australian as our pinnacle position under the constitution? It will take time, but if you want to do it properly, we should begin the discussion now, so we’re ready to go in a second term of an Albanese government.”
Abetz has previously described the monarch as a “stable, enduring, unifying part of our democratic arrangements”.
Story Credit :- The Guardian 