Man United vs Arsenal - The Preview

2 of Englands biggest historical giants clash at Old Trafford. A fierce rivalry, and at a ground the league leaders Arsenal haven’t won at with fans, since 2006. 

After a putrid start to the season, the Red Devils have accumulated 3 back to back wins including 2 away with 2 clean sheets & Liverpool, with the help of new signings Malacia & Martinez.

Arsenal head into the game in red hot form, winning a perfect 5/5 league games, keeping 2 clean sheets and scoring 13, with the chance to go 4 points clear of Man City in 2nd after yesterdays draw, should they win at Old Trafford. 

Team News:

The Gunners are without Elneny & Partey, but everyone else in the squad has travelled to Manchester. Arsenal are unlikely to change anything, other than Zinchenko coming in for Tierney, with next week’s opening European fixture a good time to rest. 

Man United also have a full squad, with new signing Casemiro half rested vs Leicester midweek, and another Brazilian - Antony, who could make his debut against the North London side but wouldn’t be expected to start, after his midweek move from Ajax.

Man United’s last XI:
De Gea; Dalot, Varane; Martinez, Malacia, Mctominay; Eriksen, Bruno, Sancho, Rashford, Elanga

Arsenal’s last XI:
Ramsdale, Tierney, Saliba, Gabriel, White, Lokonga, Xhaka, Ødegaard, Martinelli, Jesus, Saka. 

Key Battles:

Jesus vs Martinez will be a very intriguing one, with the Brazilian thriving against aggressive defenders so far, most notably spinning Evans & Sensi to create big chances. Martinez has started to pick up form very well recently, so this’ll be an interesting battle. 

Saka vs Malacia - one of the most imposing wingers to face possible who’s just starting to find his groove, vs a young fullback who’s looked mightily impressive, very quick, strong & good in recovery as shown vs Salah. The opposite matchup of Martinelli, in fantastic form vs Dalot will be decisive too. 

A massive mental advantage, for whoever can gain the points. 
