Growdiesel Climate Care council and Magistrate New Delhi celebrated World Environment Day with cyclists in Delhi.

The even was part of ReCycle- a cycling awareness campaign organised by District Magistrate New Delhi and Growdiesel Climate Care Council in association with Skill Council for Green Jobs. 
The objective of this cycling rally is to give the message to citizens“Segregate your waste for its effective ReCycling and UpCycling”

Around 170 cyclists joined the event which was flagged off at 5.15 a.m from the Office of the District Magistrate,12/1,Jam Nagar House,Shahjahan Road. 
The cyclists covered many part Delhi.
The rally culminated at Rashtrapati bhawan.

In a message on the day Dr. Monica Priyadarshini, District Magistrate (New Delhi District ) said, 

“Waste segregation is a very important act which needs to be followed.If a person segregated his/her waste at their home,it can be effectively ReCycled and UpCycled into biofuel and other reusable products. With this this initiative,we hope that people take 1 action to fight climate change and that is Waste Segregation”.

The event was supported by Skill Council for Green Jobs.“This environment day,we decided to join hands with District Magistrate New Delhi and Growdiesel Climate Care Council to spread the message in a unique way.The uniqueness of this event starts from the name itself ReCycle:Cycling for ReCycling.We are proud supporters of this initiative and hope that every individual takes 1 action of segregating their waste for its effective ReCycling and UpCycling”,commented Dr. Praveen, CEO, Skill Council for Green Jobs.


Growdiesel Climate Care Council is a Delhi based Climate NGO that is constantly working in Waste to Biofuel sector.It is led by Shrey Saxena,a 26 year old young internationally awarded social entrepreneur. “The reason we hosted this cycling drive is because I believe that youngsters need to be communicated with right call to actions in an innovative way.No millennial or Gen Z will understand climate change if they are told in a boring manner.We believe in communicating action oriented messages to fight climate change in an innovative way.’,said Shrey Saxena,trustee of Growdiesel Climate Care Council.