Heavy metal is known for being hard hitting, heavy and aggressive. The music is made up of heavy guitar riffs, usually played in a minor key, accompanied by shreddy guitar solos, bombastic drums, aggressive loud vocals with other instrumentation such as keys, synthesizers etc. The themes can vary from anything from religion, society, war, fantasy, philosophy etc.

The styles are many such as heavy metal, thrash, death, groove, progressive, black metal, symphonic, power, metalcore etc. Another sub genre exists within heavy metal which is heavily looked down upon by most metalheads and not even considered as part of heavy metal, that is called glam/hair metal.

Hair metal or glam metal was the most dominant form of rock music in the 80s, spearheaded by bands such as Motley Crue, Quiet Riot, Dokken, Ratt, Twisted Sister, Bon Jovi etc. Inspired from Kiss and Hanoi Rocks, these bands played a softer type of heavy rock music with topics only ranging from drugs, partying, girls, sex and booze, while putting on make up and dressing up like girls. Even musically they had little variety following the same 4/4 progression, playing its songs in the major key, it was basically the pop of metal.

Los Angeles was the epicentre of glam metal. While bands like Motley Crue genuinely played heavy metal, this trend turned into corporate rock, with bands first copying Def Leppard, which was imitated by Motley Crue and Quiet Riot, then Bon Jovi, Poison etc. This wave of copy cat bands having attractive guys one after the other making sissy music became way too artificial for most.
Hell, hair metal has been dead for 40 years and even the newer metalheads speak smack over it. But is it really bad? Speaking strictly from the viewpoint of a lifelong metalhead, no. While later hair bands certainly began churning out too many power ballads, the early tunes of Motley Crue and Dokken were very attitude filled and headbangable. Perhaps the biggest reason that hair metal gets so much hate is due to the elitist bandwagon in the metal community who put down everything they deem as not ‘true metal’,