Saudi Media Group has made an offer of £2.7 billion to take over Chelsea.

According to a recent report from CBS Sports reporter Ben Jacobs, the Saudi media conglomerates are interested in acquiring the Premier League giants.

The UK Government recently sanctioned current owner Roman Abramovich following the billionaire's native Russia's decision to invade Ukraine last month.

Following Russia's decision to invade Ukraine last month, the UK government sanctioned Roman Abramovich.

Rising European tensions compelled the government to impose strict financial sanctions on wealthy Russian oligarchs who can directly or indirectly aid President Vladimir Putin's regime in their quest to 'demilitarise' neighbouring Ukraine (Politico).

As a result, Abramovich's assets have been frozen, including Chelsea Football Club, which is expected to be sold soon.

What is the Saudi Media Group and who is Mohamed Alkhereiji?

Saudi Media Group is a multibillion-pound media and publishing conglomerate based primarily in the United Arab Emirates.
Mohamed Alkhereji, the owner of the Saudi Media Group and a Chelsea fan, is leading the private consortium to purchase the club.

Alkhereiji is also the CEO of Engineer Holding Group, which was founded by his father, Abdulelah Alkhereiji.

Al-Khereiji is the CEO of Al-Arabia Outdoor Advertising and the Chairman of MBC Media Solutions, the commercial advertising and sales arm of MBC Group, a Saudi government-owned media conglomerate.

He holds an executive master's degree in business administration from London's Business School – formerly known as Cass – and previously worked as an analyst for Deutsche Bank in London, which fueled his interest in the Blues.

Alkhereiji designed the new, cutting-edge stadium in Mrsool Park for Saudi Arabian club Al Nassr.

Alkhereiji is said to be leading SMG's proposal to buy Chelsea, with his passion for the club stemming from his three years in the UK while attending Cass Business School and working at Deutsche Bank (Futball News).

The wealthy media tycoon is thought to have a personal net worth of more than £2 billion (Haqexpress).