Bethesda’s upcoming sci-fi action RPG game Starfield is going to be more than just exploring the horizons of a vast universe, it will also be about talking to get what you want. In fact, the game will have four times more dialogue in comparison to Skyrim. 
During a recent interview, Todd Howard gave some details about the Starfield dialogue system that points towards the return of persuasion, a common conversation tool of Fallout and The Elder Scrolls games.
Bethesda outlined Starfield's speech systems in a new video of Bethesda CEO Todd Howard answering some questions about the game.
 It has been confirmed that Starfield is currently hovering around 252,953 lines of dialogue, dwarfing Skyrim's roughly 60,000 and more than doubling Fallout 4's approximate 111,000.
"We've done a lot of different dialogue systems. We've gone back to, I'll call it, a classic Bethesda-style dialogue," Howard says of Starfield. 
"You're looking at the character and how they emote, there's a series of choices there. The scope of the game, the amount of content we're making, is a bit more than we've done before in terms of quests and things, the depth of some of this stuff with the dialogue.”
“We just passed 250,000 lines, so that's a lot of dialogue. But we've gone through it and the impact is really there, and that includes my favorite speech persuasion system," he continued. 
"It feels like it's part of the dialogue but you're spending points to persuade them. It feels natural, not like I've entered some other mode where I'm not doing regular dialogue and I'm in this mode of persuading you to get what I want."
In addition to seeing some dialogue, Howard also revealed Starfield’s persuasion system. The example shown was a conversation with a raider where the player has several options to either smooth things over or use intimidation.
 All of this is accomplished via a points system. There’s also a turn limit to how many times you can attempt a persuasive argument on your subject. We don’t know what happens if the persuasion fails happen , but in the past Bethesda games usually resolved such moments through violence.