Scout Report-Sergino Dest- Revival Under ETH?
Man United had been craving defensive reinforcements for a long time. United got Tyrell Malacia, Lisandro Martinez and Casemiro for each position. Now, they need to fill the right-back position. While Diego Dalot has done well, Aaron Wan Bissaka is not cutting it. Erik Ten Hag is known for his ruthlessness, as seen in his previous club. Along with Frenkie De Jong, he is looking to raid for Barcelona right fullback Sergino Dest.
Dest, a Surinamese-American representing the United States of America, started his early career as a forward, but later transitioned to fullback. He made his bow with Ajax’s first team. For the 2019/20 season, he registered 35 appearances and 2 goals.
In the 2020/21 season, Barcelona came knocking on his door and snapped him up for 21 million plus 5 million in variables.
Dest has a high attacking output, combined with his defensive side of the game. His creativity with the ball and his speed makes him a lethal wingback.
Looking at his season heatmap, we can see that he had more attacking output rather than his defensive side of the game. He had some eye-catching skills, quick combinations and some landmark performances which caught up the eyes of the big clubs, notably Manchester United.
From the heatmap, we can see that the darker shade in the heatmap is where he had more actions, down the attacking third. He was involved in the attacking side of the game, combining the play progressing with the ball up the pitch. We will dissect his stats further.
Passes
Dest likes to spend most of his time in the opposition attacking area, having higher involvement up the pitch, as he exchanged 470 short passes with teammates, which puts him in the 90 percentile. He has made 27.83 short passes per 90. He uses his dribbling skills to penetrate the defence and send dangerous passes to his teammates. Dest has made 3.67 passes into the final third. He ranks 84 percentile. Dest has short pass completion of 93.5% per 90.