On June 29, Canadian federal and provincial governments reached a proposed $150-million settlement with Purdue Pharma Canada, makers of OxyContin, an opioid-based pain medication. The settlement is intended to recover the health-care costs related to the damaging effects from the sale and marketing of OxyContin.

While this is the largest settlement of a governmental health-care cost claim in Canadian history, it is also a paltry amount compared to the approximately US$6 billion that Purdue will pay in the United States. A population-equivalent Canadian settlement would have been closer to CA$900 million.

Until this $150-million fine, there is no record of any drug company ever having been fined for its promotion of one of its prescription drug products in Canada. Despite illegal drug promotion documented in the United States, Health Canada did not investigate whether such practices were also present in Canada. One example was the distribution of 15,000 copies of a video in the U.S. claiming, without any substantiation, that opioids caused addiction in fewer than one in 100 patients.

When asked why, agency officials responded that Health Canada “has not been made aware of any specific similar issue in Canada and has not received complaints.”

Equally concerning, however, is the intense focus on financial settlements at the expense of regulatory changes.

Regulatory loopholes
Since the opioid crisis emerged, researchers and journalists have identified a range of strategies and policy loopholes that companies took advantage of to push their products. These included:

industry influence over clinical practice guidelines, which are recommendations for patient care,

funding that can bias medical education,

providing health-care professionals with free trips to exotic locations in order to listen to “expert opinions,”

insufficient transparency around funding of non-profit organizations and

a government-sanctioned culture of self-regulation, enabling the pharmaceutical industry to regulate its own promotion practices.

Despite this knowledge, virtually all of these strategies remain entirely legal.

Read more: https://theconversation.com/150m-is-not-enough-canadas-proposed-purdue-pharma-settlement-for-opioid-damages-is-paltry-and-wont-prevent-future-crises-186361