Jamshedpur FC will be hosting Odisha on 11th October from 7:30 PM. This is going to be an opener for both the teams and Jamshedpur who were the table toppers the last season would like to start this season on the same note as well. A team that got introduced in 2017 made a long way to reach the position they are in today and would not like to decrease its reputation. 
Meanwhile, Odisha were 7th in the standings with only 6 wins from 20 games the previous season. They would like to come back stronger this season and start winning matches from the start so as to make the way easy to the semis. 
Jamshedpur vs Odisha FC's head-to-head record shows that of the 10 meetings they've had, Jamshedpur has won 7 times and Odisha FC has won 1 time. 2 fixtures between Jamshedpur and Odisha FC has ended in a draw.
Match Details 
Jamshedpur FC vs Odisha FC 
Date and Time - 11th October, 7:30 PM IST
Venue - JRD Tata Sports Complex.
Jamshedpur FC vs Odisha FC:- Predicted line-ups:-
Jamshedpur FC - Rehenesh TP, Laldinliana Renthlei, Eli Sabia, Peter Hartley, Pratik Chaudhari, Germanpreet Singh, Wellington Cirino Priori, Boris Singh, Harry Sawyer, Jay Aston Emmanuel Thomas, Daniel Chukwu
Odisha FC- Kamaljit Singh, Hector Rodas, Lalruatthara, Victor Mongil, Sahil Panwar, Daniel Lalhlimpuia, Thoiba Singh, Issac Vanmalsawma, Jerry Mawihmingthanga, Redeem Tlang, Aridai Cabrera.
Match prediction:- Jamshedpur 2-1 Odisha
The head-to-head meeting proved that in 10 meetings only once Odisha pulled out a victory from Jamshedpur FC. So it's quite clear that Jamshedpur will pull off a victory in their opening game as well. 
Jamshedpur had been in a great flow the previous season and would like to carry on their flow this season too. The team got introduced in the 2017-18 season of ISL and made a long way to create a great fan base by their gameplay 
Jamshedpur FC vs Odisha FC: Live telecast details
The fifth match of ISL this season between Jamshedpur FC vs Odisha FC  will be telecasted on Star Sports and Star Sports HD TV channels in India from 7:30 PM onwards.