Buildings in Lagos state, Nigeria’s economic hub, have in recent years been collapsing in greater numbers than ever. Between 2000 and 2021 the city experienced 167 reported cases, with significant human and economic losses.
The latest data from Lagos State Emergency Management Agency showed that between January and July 2022, Lagos recorded 24 cases of total building collapse, six of partial collapse and one of impending collapse. Eighty-four Lagosians have been killed in building collapse incidents in the last two years.
Ghana’s capital, Accra, in contrast, had only eight building collapses between April 2000 and February 2016.
This grim Nigerian data reflects the failure of the Lagos state government to protect its citizens.
Drawing from my previous research, I have identified that high-rise residential buildings make up most of the collapses in Lagos. The reasons include the use of substandard materials and unqualified or unskilled builders.
Other factors include non-adherence to the National Building Code, illegal conversion of existing structures and ineffective monitoring by regulatory agencies.
The recent spate of building collapse in Lagos presents an opportunity for the government to get tough on the construction industry and prevent future incidents. Citizens also have a part to play.
In this article I set out five critical issues I consider indispensable for building safety, stability and sustainability. They are all germane, given the disastrous state of building development in Lagos in the past four years.
1. Test the integrity of all high-rise buildings
The starting point is to recognise that high-rise structures are at the highest risk of collapse. This is due to structural inadequacies and professional ineptitude on the part of the developers.
Previous studies suggested that government didn’t implement the recommendations from past integrity tests of buildings in Lagos. This was likely due to a lack of political will to ensure fundamental standards were maintained. It suggests the government might only be paying lip service to building safety.
Read more: https://theconversation.com/five-steps-nigeria-must-take-to-stop-buildings-collapsing-in-lagos-190470
