surge in coronavirus cases caused by the Omicron variant increasing day by day. Healthcare experts indicate that majority of the people will require booster dose in containing the spread of virus .

Speaking at a webinar on Omicron and booster dose, organised by Hospital & Diagnostics Committee, PHDCCI leading healthcare thought leaders spoke about booster doses are important along with other key COVID appropriate behaviour.

Initiating the discussion Dr Harsh Mahajan, Chair, Hospital & Diagnostics Committee, PHDCCI, mentioned that the Omicron variant of the virus, even though clinically ascertained to be not as lethal, has the potential to cause another wave of the pandemic. He further said that anyone with Omicron infection can spread the virus to others, even if they are vaccinated or don’t have symptoms.

Informing that by the end of February 22 or early week of March, pandemic could be over but majority of the people though will require booster dose, Dr. Chandrakant Lahariya, epidemiologist and health specialist spoke about the choice of booster dose and urged Government to allow people for choice of booster dose vaccination. On the choice of the booster dose he mentioned mRNA based booster dose will be the first choice, protein based booster dose will be second and same vaccine taken earlier will be the third choice.

Talking about the Omicron variant, Dr. Lahariya said,"Decoupling of disease which means the cases are increasing because of high transmissibility of the variant but the hospitalization cases are very less and also decreasing. With 90 percent of population of India has received one or two shots of the vaccine, we are at a good state and vaccine are really working to provide us a protection of getting severe disease. He further said that people with prior infection recovery and vaccination than they have 14 fold higher immunity for various COVID variants even for Delta."

Read the full article here - https://health.economictimes.indiatimes.com/amp/news/pharma/booster-dose-can-contains-spread-of-virus-experts/88950036