At 11:00 this morning, the counting of votes for the presidential election will start. The BJP is making huge preparations to celebrate Droupadi Murmu's victory because she is predicted to defeat Yashwant Sinha of the opposition by a wide margin.

Vote counting will start in Parliament House at 11 a.m. Around 4 pm, the findings are anticipated.
After the election results are announced, Prime Minister Narendra Modi is anticipated to pay a visit to . Murmu at her temporary residence in Teen Murti Marg and congratulate her.

Following Murmu's victory, the Delhi BJP has organised a roadshow from the party's headquarters to Rajpath. There will be several senior figures present.

The BJP's state units have all organised victory processions that will be carried out after the results are announced.

The people of Rairangpur, in the state of Odisha, where Murmu was born, are also prepared to celebrate, having prepared 20,000 sweets. There will also be a victory march and a tribal dance.

The NDA's selection of Murmu, an ex-governor of Jharkhand and a tribal lady from Odisha, is perceived as a ploy to divide the opposition and win over non-aligned groups like Jaganmohan Reddy's YSR Congress and Naveen Patnaik's Biju Janata Dal.

Yashwant Sinha, the opposition candidate and a former Union minister, received support from 34 parties overall, while Droupadi Murmu, a former governor of Jharkhand, received support from 44 parties. However, a number of MLAs have admitted to casting a cross-vote in Ms. Murmu's favour.

Before the votes are counted, they will be sorted, with the votes of MPs and MLAs being separated. Each MP's vote has a set value of 700, however each state's MLA's vote has a varied value.

The candidate who receives more votes than a certain criteria is declared the winner of the presidential election, not the one with the most votes. By adding the votes cast for each candidate, dividing the total by 2, and adding "1," the quota is calculated. The winner is the candidate who receives more votes than this number.

On July 25, the President-elect will take the oath of office.