‘Operation LEGHORN’ and the
Battle of the Namka Chucontinues...
The only possible physical communication route was along a narrow foot track that ran parallel to the front, practically along it, so that when hostilities began it was immediately cut, and all the localities 
had to fight in isolation for as long as they could. It was a dreadful situation. The brigade’s hastily brought-together four battalions, 2nd Rajputs, (composed of Rajputs, Gujjars, and Bengalis), 1st/9th Gorkha Rifles (of Khas and Thakur Gorkhas), 9th Punjab (of Jat Sikhs and Dogra Rajputs of Punjab and Himachal Pradesh), and 4th Grenadiers (of Kaimkhani Muslims of Rajasthan and Ahirs (Yadavs) from Haryana and Rajasthan), were thus doomed from the start.
On 6th October, the Chinese leadership convened to review the situation. Marshal Lin Biao reported that PLA intelligence units had determined that Indian units might assault Chinese positions at Thag La on 10th October.
The Chinese leadership and the Central Military Commission (CMC) had already decided in principle upon war. China’s aim was much more than repulsion or pre-emption of Indian moves. It was 
decidedly punitive: to launch a large-scale attack to severely punish India for the perceived military aggression. It was decided that India must be taught to respect China’s power. In Beijing, a larger meeting of the CMC was convened in order to plan for the coming conflict. Marshal Liu Bocheng headed a group to determine the strategy for the war. He concluded that the opposing Indian troops were among India’s best, and to achieve victory would require deploying crack troops and relying on force concentration to achieve decisive victory.
Mao and the Chinese leadership issued a directive laying out the objectives for the war. A main assault would be launched in the eastern sector, which would be coordinated with a smaller assault in the western sector. All Indian troops within China’s claimed territories in the eastern sector would be expelled, and the war would be ended with a unilateral Chinese ceasefire and withdrawal to prewar positions, followed by a return to the negotiating table.
To be continued...