Even if you stream TV on a daily basis, chances are you haven't discovered all the tricks Netflix has to offer.As one of the top streaming services in the world, Netflix doesn't get a day off in most households. But whether you use it daily, weekly or monthly, that doesn't mean you know all its secrets.
You may find creating a watchlist straightforward, as well as scrolling through the  trending or personal recommendation sections. But Netflix offers other ways to peek behind the curtain and enhance your viewing experience. With a flick of the wrist -- or remote -- you can up your streaming game using these tips.

1 .Tired of googling "Netflix show with monsters"? Take your browsing skills to new heights by digging for Netflix originals with one search term: "Netflix." Open the Netflix app on any device and pop the brand's name in the search bar and it will bring up every original Netflix movie and series ever released.
You can use this same method to find content that runs in 4K or HDR. Type in either term and Netflix's search results will return titles that display in that format. Keep in mind that there is a limited amount of Netflix content that displays in 4K or HDR.

2. By now, you may have heard talk of hidden codes for subcategories in Netflix, much like Starbucks' secret menu. These exist. Narrow down your hunt for titles in a specific genre by using four-digit codes when viewing in a web browser.

3.I know plenty of people who love to watch Netflix on their mobile phones or tablets. For those with limited data, that can eat up a big chunk, depending on the video quality. However, you can tinker with the data usage to lower the amount for your device.

Open the Netflix app on your phone and tap the More icon or your profile. Click on App Settings and navigate to Video Playback to select Cellular Data Usage. Per Netflix's help section, change your download setup to Wi-Fi Only to avoid draining your mobile plan's data. Note that this will only pop up if your device operates with cellular data.