Pandit Omkarnath Thakur (24 June 1897-29 December 1967), his name often preceded by the title Pandit, was an influential Educator, Musicologist and Hindustani Classical Vocalist. He is famously known as "Pranav Rang", his pen-name. A disciple of Classical Singer Pt. Vishnu Digambar Paluskar of Gwalior Gharana, he became the principal of Gandharva Mahavidyalaya, Lahore, and later went on become the first dean of the music faculty at Banaras Hindu University.
His grandfather Mahashankar Thakur was had fought in the Indian Rebellion of 1857 for Nanasaheb Peshwa. His father, Gaurishankar Thakur was also in the military, employed by Maharani Jamnabai of Baroda, where he commanded 200 cavalrymen. The family moved to Bharuch in 1900, though soon the family faced financial difficulties, as his father left the military to became a renunciate (sanyasi), leaving his wife to run the household, thus by the age of 5 Thakur started helping her out by doing various odd jobs, in mills, Ramlila troupe and even as a domestic help. When he was 14 his father died.
Impressed by his singing Thakur and his younger brother Ramesh Chandra were sponsored by a wealthy Parsi philanthropist Shahpurji Mancherji Dungaji in circa 1909 to train in Hindustani Classical Music in the Gandharva Mahavidyalaya, a music school in Bombay, under Classical Singer Pt. Vishnu Digambar Paluskar. 
Thakur was made the principal of a Lahore branch of Paluskar's Gandharva Mahavidyalaya in 1916. Here he became acquainted with the Patiala Gharana singers like Ali Baksh and Kale Khan, paternal uncle of Bade Ghulam Ali Khan. In 1919, he returned to Bharuch and started his own music school, Gandharva Niketan. During the 1920s, Thakur worked for the non-cooperation movement of Mahatma Gandhi on a local level, as he became the President of Bharuch District Congress Committee of Indian National Congress. His performances of Vande Mataram were a regular feature of annual sessions of the Indian National Congress. Thakur toured Europe in 1933 and became one of the first Indian musicians to perform in Europe. During tour, he performed privately for Benito Mussolini.
Panditji’s compositions are many but my favourite is the live concert where he sang
‘Main Nahin Maakhan Khayo’