By BestMediaInfo Bureau
EatFit, the healthy food platform housed under Curefoods, has launched a TVC with Varun Dhawan and Mithila Palkar urging users to upgrade to delicious, nutritious, and quality food with it.
The TVC implies to users that they can eat tasty and sumptuous food consistently, even while ordering online. With EatFit, users will receive the food that they see and expect, at the time of their order, with no more ‘dhoka’ to their taste buds and food experience.
EatFit's fundamental food philosophy is based on 3 principles of having zero trans fats, zero white sugar, and zero artificial ingredients in the food they prepare, which is very well communicated through this TVC.
We live in a world that is driven by ratings, but the truth is that these ratings do not always translate to quality. EatFit said it consistently makes sure to provide that quality to their users and that remains their topmost priority.
The TVC was conceptualised and written by stand-up comedian Kanan Gill, and the tagline for the ad ‘Upgrade to EatFit’ was created by Purplemango India, a creative agency.
Directed by Rahul Bharti, the TVC was shot in Mehboob Studios in Mumbai and was produced by Jump Films. For the appearance, Varun Dhawan’s look and outfit were developed by Kazim, Stylist at Vainglorious, and Mithila Palkar's look was developed by Shreeja Rajagopal, the founder of draping dreams.
This TVC brings in the theme of the 90's of Bollywood, when Bollywood was at its dramatic best. This was the most entertaining phase where the audience and actors remembered the characters, names, and film dialogues very well, which has been leveraged as a part of the messaging by the production team in an entertaining way.
Ankit Nagori, Founder, Curefoods, said, “EatFit’s fundamental food philosophy is based on three principles of having zero transfats, zero white sugar, and zero artificial ingredients in its food. 
Read more: https://bestmediainfo.com/2022/09/varun-dhawan-and-mithila-palkar-urge-consumers-to-upgrade-to-eatfit-in-its-new-tvc