Cooke Uruguay, one of the largest fleets in the region has recently achieved Friend of the Sea certification for its sustainable deep-sea crab fishing. Cooke Uruguay achieved certification by passing exhaustive controls set by external, accredited auditing bodies, owing to its sustainable practices underpinning its fishing methods.
Cooke Uruguay also represents  one of the leading food processers in South America, boasting the most prominent customers in the seafood market worldwide and enjoying international recognition for its high-quality products. Cooke Uruguay is incorporated amongst the 10,000-employee strong Cooke Seafood enterprise, an aquaculture from Canada spanning two generations, propelling Cooke Uruguay’s sustainable management through the highly diversified and integrated synergies shared between the numerable Cooke Branches.  
 
Sustainable practice represents the forefront of Cooke Uruguay’s primary objectives, building the ethical foundations of its fishing activities. The company has applied for Friend of the Sea certification to challenge its current sustainability policies, regulating both its environmental and social responsibility pledges, along with ensuring best practice in treatment of animal welfare and food safety.
Cooke Uruguay’s fishing of deep-sea crab guarantees that least possible damage is inflicted to the seabed. The vessels rely on traps, spaced 30m apart to fish crabs at depths greater than 500m. Fishing with traps is widely understood to perform substantially better than its mobile counterparts such as trawls and dredges as the traps are engineered to be highly specific, with little chances of unintended bycatch. The depth of fishing also bypasses interference with many venerable species, further reducing the chances of bycatch. Inspections of the catch also prove meticulous, with each crab measured to ensure they meet the nationally regulated carapace width limit (the size of the crab’s body across the widest part of the shell), and to ensure absolutely no females are taken.