Australia will be sweating on the fitness of Steve Smith after the star batsman appeared to tweak a leg muscle during the tourists' 26-run ODI loss to Sri Lanka.

Chasing 216 for victory off 43 overs under the Duckworth-Lewis-Stern method on Thursday (local time), Australia was on track at 5-170, with Glenn Maxwell in hot form at Pallekele.

But Maxwell's departure for 30 off 25 balls and the run-out of Alex Carey (15) sparked a collapse of 5-19 as Australia was bowled out for 189 in 37.1 overs.

Sri Lanka had posted 9-220 in 47.4 overs before a rain delay of more than two hours halted proceedings.

The home side's fighting victory levelled the five-match series at 1-1.

Sri Lanka paceman Chamika Karunaratne was the hero with 3-47, snaring the key scalps of Smith and Maxwell to go with his run-out of Carey.

Smith called for medical attention after pulling up lame while pushing hard for a second run during Australia's run chase.

The 33-year-old received strapping to his left thigh area, and was able to bat on.

Smith was dismissed a few overs later for 28.

A two-Test series against Sri Lanka starts on June 29.

Australia has endured a horror run with injuries during the tour, with Ashton Agar (side), Marcus Stoinis (side), Sean Abbott (finger), Kane Richardson (hamstring), Mitchell Starc (finger) and Mitch Marsh (hamstring) all injured.

Stoinis, Abbott and Richardson have already been sent home, while Agar is no guarantee to play again on tour.

"I'm definitely not playing any more of the one-dayers," Agar said.

"I've got a bit of a tear in my side, which isn't great.

"Hopefully, maybe around the second Test match (I can return), being optimistic."

Agar's injury had a silver lining, with debutant spinner Matthew Kuhnemann proving he will be more than a handy back-up ahead of next year's ODI World Cup in India.

Kuhnemann snared 2-48 off 10 overs in an impressive ODI debut, with the left-armer adapting to the conditions expertly.

Read more 👇🏻https://www.abc.net.au/news/2022-06-17/sri-lanka-australia-second-odi-in-pallekele/101160052