By Shivaji Dasgupta

Kolkata: A thriving democracy generously issues the license to censure ruling powers but that surely does not extend to ridiculing national pride. The recent juvenile acts of the opposition and their digital allies regarding 'Har Ghar Tiranga' qualify shamelessly in the latter cohort. 

For many decades after independence,  ordinary citizens were not permitted to flaunt the flag in private residences, and we must thank Naveen Jindal for this notable privilege. By initiating a series of compelling and successful legal endeavours, appropriately celebrated by the giant version at the OP Jindal University, Sonepat. From being an institutional engagement, the flag steadily graduated to a private relationship, although with limited access and awareness. 

All of this is scheduled to change in this 75th anniversary, courtesy a series of scalability initiatives, efficiently devised. Firstly, the flags can now be polyester, and not just khadi, and are easily available offline and online, via the post office network. At a procurement cost of Rs.25 only, it is accessible to most if not many, and ready to add a valuable dimension to sensorial national identity. But then learned naysayers insist that this is tantamount to denigrating khadi and what's worse, the momentum is fuelled by Chinese imports.

This brings me to the point about constructive versus destructive criticism, as this movement to stimulate the domestic presence of the national flag is surely exceptional. Most like-minded Western democracies embrace this national identity as a beautiful expression of timeless affiliation and its physical presence is a comforting symbol of stability and peace. Equally importantly, for the India of 2022, it is delightful evidence that we are a successful nation, way above most on several parameters, whatever be the inevitable problems. 

Every time the daughter of a rickshaw puller becomes an IAS topper, it demonstrates our throbbing meritocracy. Every time you are enthralled by an entry-level sweeper becoming the AGM of a bank, it proves our inclusive hierarchies. Every time we are proud of a worthy breaking yet another global corporate ceiling, it reaffirms our universal brainpower. 

Read more
https://www.newsdrum.in/columns/har-ghar-tiranga-stop-playing-politics-with-the-national-flag-72965.html