 Disney’s upcoming live action remake of its 1989 animated classic ‘The Little Mermaid’ is set to come to theaters in 2023. The original 1989 film was a childhood favourite for many and is a part of Disney’s slate of high budget live action adaptations of all its animated classics such as Cinderella, The Beauty and The Beast, The Lion King and most recently Pinocchio. Unfortunately for the upcoming remake, the teaser alone has received more than 2 million dislikes .
The character of Ariel will be played by 22 year old African American actress Halle Bailey which has partly been the reason for the monstrous amount of dislikes as much of the YouTube comment section was drowned with racist comments before Disney had them deleted as in addition to blocking the dislike button. 
While defenders of the remake have said that the dislikes are due to racism which is partly true as there have been several racist comments on YouTube for casting a black person as the iconic Disney mermaid, the real problem is far deeper.
Indeed there have also been several genuine complaints which include the dim lighting of the footage, lack of vibrant colours, and CGI overuse. The core problem however is the race swapping which has been made the crux of the whole remake rather than reinventing the story and telling it in a different context. This showcases Disney’s love for garnering cheap publicity via way of generating controversy, creative bankruptcy and of course, their strong love of woke-ism which they use to snub all criticism no matter how constructive.
Almost none of Disney’s live action remakes have been particularly good, coming out more as cheap cash-grabs than anything else but that has more to do with the laziness of the creative executives at Disney and their reluctance in taking risks with their beloved animated classics rather than simply race swapping. 
However woke culture has too had a very strong role to play in this severe decline in quality as Disney has forgotten that their objective with these live action remakes is to entertain rather than go on some sort of cheap socio-political messaging spree.