After hitting the screens on March 11, 2022, ‘The Kashmir Files’ has become a blockbuster hit, having already crossed the Rs 200 crore mark in box office earnings.

People from all strata of society are thronging theatres to watch this watershed film. Some are sponsoring tickets for an entire show, others are taking along as many people as they can. There are reports that a rickshaw driver is offering free rides to people going to watch ‘The Kashmir Files’. He says “it is playing his part” in the ‘movement’ that the film has turned into.

On the other end of the spectrum are those calling the film a ‘propaganda’ movie. Former J&K Chief Minister Farooq Abdullah has demanded that a commission of enquiry be set up to probe the genocide of Kashmiri Pandits from the Kashmir Valley in the years leading upto and following 1990.

An IAS officer in Madhya Pradesh has landed in trouble with the state government for suggesting that the producers of ‘The Kashmir Files’ should make another film on the “killings of a large number of Muslims across several states.” On Sunday, Niyaz Khan had tweeted: “Income of Kashmir Files reached 150 crores. Great. People have given a lot of respect for Kashmiri Brahmins’ feelings. I would request film producers to transfer all earnings to the Brahmin children’s education and construction of homes for them in Kashmir. It will be a great charity”.

According to critics, the film is proving polarising and preaches ‘hate’ against a particular community. Most of the people making such statements have not even seen the ‘The Kashmir Files’ and are unaware of the fact that it does present an alternate viewpoint, in a scene depicting the opinions of the majority population of the Kashmir Valley, towards the climax.

The best recourse would be to go watch the film yourself and then come to any conclusion or form any kind of opinion. Getting swayed by vitriol and calling the film ‘propaganda’ runs counter to the cause of freedom of expression, reason, humanity and justice.