We know Karine Jean Pierre as an American political campaign organizer, activist, political commentator, and author. She is all set to make history by becoming the 35th White House Press Secretary on May 13, 2022, making her the first African American and the first openly gay person to be Press Secretary.

She previously served as the chief of staff for Democratic vice presidential nominee Kamala Harris during the 2020 presidential campaign, becoming the first black woman and first lesbian to hold that position. She was also the senior advisor and national spokeswoman for MoveOn.org and a political analyst for NBC News and MSNBC. She is also a former lecturer in international and public affairs at Columbia University. 

She was born in France and later moved to the USA. Karen Jean-Pierre has often interpreted her crucial her family’s journey to the iconic “American Dream” was to her life. She had been campaigning to break down prejudices based on mental health: she described being sexually abused during her childhood and suffering from depression.

In a book published in 2019, she talked about “the pressure for growing success in an immigrant family.”

“The pressure was so great, my sense of failure was so strong, I thought my family would be better off without me. I tried to kill myself,” Karen Jean-Pierre said in a post on the MSNBC channel, for which she worked as a consultant.

During the Barack Obama 2008 presidential campaign, Jean-Pierre was the campaign's southeast regional political director and was the regional political director for the White House Office of Political Affairs during the Obama administration's first term.

She always was vocal about her opinions recently she asserted that the White House opposes Ron DeSantis "taking action against a company" (Disney for their opposition to Florida House Bill 1557), referring to the effort to repeal the Reedy Creek Improvement Act. 

This is a moment to rejoice for the country as the African American and LGBTQIA+ representation is happening finally in Whitehouse. Many this is a step for many more.