Lesotho is due to hold national elections in mid-October. The polls were expected to be held under a new constitutional regime resulting from a reform process that started in 2012. But, the process has not yielded much fruit.

There’s widespread consensus – locally and internationally – that the constitutional kingdom of about 2.2 million must reform its political system to overcome recurrent political instability. But successive governments have failed to bring about the necessary changes.

Now, with parliament legally required to dissolve by 14 July 2022 and elections held within three months, there is simply no time to undertake and complete the reforms. So, Basotho look set to vote without the much-needed political changes, at least the important ones.

The proposed reforms that have not been passed by parliament pertain to the excessive powers of the prime minister, unprofessional media, politicised security agencies and judiciary, parliament and the formation of government.

The reasons for reforms
The biggest deficiency of Lesotho’s political system is that the prime minister wields excessive powers.

These deficiencies became apparent with the advent of fragile coalition politics in 2012. In 2014 to 2015, the then prime minister, Thomas Thabane, capriciously replaced the chief justice, the president of the court of appeal as well as the leadership of the security agencies.

He also prorogued parliament and changed most of the senior personnel of the civil service. Consequently, calls for reform grew louder while disagreements in the then tripartite coalition became pronounced.

The then deputy prime minister, Mothejoa Metsing’s party, Lesotho Congress for Democracy, withdrew its support for Thabane’s government. The government, which was formed through a hairbreadth majority in parliament – collapsed in 2015.

A new government was elected, led by Prime Minister Pakalitha Mosisili in 2015. It made the reforms its main agenda. But it didn’t have a clear process for executing the reform programme. Instead, it was consumed by the assassination of the then commander of the Lesotho Defence Force, Maaparankoe Mahao.

Read more: https://theconversation.com/lesotho-due-to-hold-elections-despite-lack-of-progress-on-key-political-reforms-185542