Bengaluru: In Jan 2021, an independent body of experts created to evaluate projects by their environmental harm or benefit rejected a proposal from the forest department to recognise Hesaraghatta, a lush grassland and lake on Bangalore’s northwestern edge, as a conservation reserve.


If it was recognised as a conservation reserve, Hesarghatta would have  legally been considered a protected area alongside national parks and sanctuaries. Instead, only two of the 31 members of the State Board for Wildlife (SBWL) supported the proposal, which was rejected, according to the minutes of the meeting held on 19 January, 2021. 


This was the only decision that the current board has taken in nearly 17 months of its existence.


No infrastructure project can be cleared in a forest area without clearance from the SBWL, in a state where millions of trees over an area of about 460 sq km were lost over 20 years to 2021, a decline that is steadily accelerating at a time of global warming. 


Hesaraghatta is an ecologically important grassland and lake that hosts endangered bird species, such as the Lesser Florican, which is protected under schedule I, the highest level of protection offered by the Wild Life Protection Act 1972 (WLPA). 


Hesarghatta was also an important source of water for the city until the mid 1990s before its catchment area was encroached or built on. Environmental experts had hoped that once it became a protected area, the ecosystem could be saved and the catchment area revived to support the growing water needs of a city of more than 10 million people.

Karnataka’s SBWL was meant to be a guardian of sorts for such protected areas. In India’s federal system, the SBWL is “an important part of the environmental regulatory apparatus at the state level,” said M D Madhusudan, former member of the National Board for Wildlife (NBWL). 

Read more - https://article-14.com/post/friends-family-favours-why-the-karnataka-wildlife-board-refused-to-create-a-protected-area--62782784ccfe8