Lviv, Ukraine (CNN)At the railway station in Lviv, in Ukraine's westernmost corner, near the Polish border, hundreds of people are pouring off of trains, disembarking as sirens blare.

The terminal, one of the most historic Art Nouveau structures in Europe, is now a waypoint for those displaced by war, attempting to put hundreds of miles between themselves and an invading Russia, while edging closer to NATO's front line.

That the historic cultural hub could become a target for Moscow was unthinkable for many — including the diplomats and international organizations that fled from the Ukrainian capital, Kyiv, to Lviv in recent weeks.

But when the sirens went off, it was a chilling reminder that nowhere in Ukraine is safe from Moscow's full-fledged assault.

There was a faraway look in people's faces. Most moved listlessly in the courtyard outside the station, even as the sirens sounded.

A family piled blankets over their baby in a stroller. Two women dressed a shivering French bulldog in a knitted pink sweater. Several other families sat together barricaded by large suitcases and plastic bags. They hadn't slept for days because of the bombardment.

They had traveled to Lviv from cities and towns, quickly packing backpacks and gathering a few belongings before fleeing.

Still reeling from the violence, many say they don't know where to go next. It's a question that's been complicated by a new Ukrainian martial law that's been rolled out. Among other restrictions, it prohibits men between the ages of 18 and 60 from leaving the country.

Families considering crossing Ukraine's border must contend not only with the trauma of becoming refugees, but also with the prospect of separating from their sons, brothers, husbands and partners.

Artem Zonenko just arrived in Lviv from Kyiv along with his mother-in-law and his infant daughter. They spent last night sleeping on the floor of a subway station, taking cover from the bombardment and shelling of the Ukrainian capital. His wife had been in Lviv for a few days. The family plans to spend a day together before they decide on whether grandmother, mother and child continue to Poland, leaving Zonenko behind.

https://edition.cnn.com/2022/02/25/europe/lviv-refugees-ukraine-war-intl-cmd/index.html?utm_medium=social&utm_term=link&utm_content=2022-02-25T22%3A46%3A05&utm_source=twCNNi