In the wake of the failed experiment under Manuel Pellegrini, David Moyes was appointed the manager of West Ham United in 2019. The decision to re-appoint Moyes did not seem overly inspiring at the time. Fast forward to 2021, and the Hammers have history by progressing into the quarter-finals of the Europa League. In one of the glorious days at the London Stadium. That began with the cry of "Forever Blowing Bubbles" and ended with the West Ham faithful singing and dancing to the tunes of "Sweet Caroline."

Here are three ways in which Moyes has transformed West ham. 

3: Smart Recruitments

West Ham United spent €150m under Pellegrini’s regime. The players they purchased never found their feet at the London Stadium.
With Moyes, it has been a different story altogether. The signing of a relatively unknown Tomas Soucek from Slavia Prague has been a masterstroke. Soucek essentially plays in the heart of the midfield and has the knack of finding open spaces in the attack. Players like Zouma, Benrahma, Vladimir Coufal, and Jarrod Bowen are now essential members of the playing XI. 

2 Adaptability 

David Moyes has hit the nail on his head with his tactical changes and tweaks in his formation. Moyes has switched between the 5-4-1 and the 4-2-3-1 very effectively. The Scottish manager knows how to play to the strength of his team. 

West Ham United have averaged 1.71 goals per game in a back three and 1.51 in a back four. They also average 1.71 points per game in a back three and 1.5 in a back four. West Ham United looks proficient in both formations.


1: Winning Mentality

David Moyes deserves full credit for instilling a winning mentality among his squad. The Hammers have averaged 1.89 points per game this season. Under the guidance of Moyes, Declan Rice and Antonio have evolved into world-class players. The Scottish manager has improved his players significantly. Moyes has also changed the atmosphere in the London Stadium. The Hammers are united, loud, and proud of its Irons. 

The Scottish tactician has turned West Ham from relegation candidates to genuine Europa League contenders.