It's a poor rock n' roll cliche that many artists die young, but two new pieces of evidence support the idea that artists have more serious health problems than the general population. Rock stars are 2 to 3 times more likely than the average population to die prematurely, according to researchers at Liverpool John Moores University's Centre for Public Health.

The study looked at over 1,000 performers from England and North America from 1956 to 2005, covering nearly the entire rock era. Unfortunately, alcohol or drugs were involved in more than a quarter of the deaths.

"Stress, shifts in popularity to obscurity, and exposure to places where alcohol and drugs are readily available can all contribute to substance use as well as other self-destructive behaviours in the music industry," according to the paper.

The study discovered that musicians are most likely to die within the first five years of being famous. During this time, death rates were three times higher than usual. The study also discovered that the risk of death for British artists remained high until 25 years after they became famous, but that the risk of death for American artists remained high throughout their lives. According to the study's primary author, the persistent high rate of death among American celebrities could be due to our country's fondness for reunion tours or the fact that many elderly musicians who are no longer in the spotlight do not have health insurance (seems more likely). The second piece of information comes from New Orleans, where artists, like the rest of the city, are still reeling from Katrina's devastation. On August 26, 2007, they held a march. The musicians walked about with their instruments but didn't play a single note. The purpose of the protest was to demonstrate to the city what life would be like without its musicians.

Many players believe that unless New Orleans does more to assist them make a living, they will be compelled to relocate.

According to the New Orleans Musicians Clinic, more than 90% of the city's musicians are poor or uninsured, and the majority do not have health insurance.