The only birth control pills that are safe to be consumed everyday, are the daily oral contraceptive pills. Emergency contraceptive pills (also known as the Morning-After Pill) known by popular brands like iPill and Unwanted72 are not developed for daily or for that matter, regular consumption.


Regular contraceptive pills are of two types – the combined oral contraceptive pill (COCP) AKA Combination birth control pill and the Progesterone/Progestin-only pill (POP or Mini Pill). The pill is one of the most popular methods of birth control. The combined pill contains a mixture of estrogen and progestin (the synthetic form of progesterone). The Progestin-only pill (or mini pill), as the name suggests, does not contain estrogen and uses only progesterone for birth control. Although contraceptive pills are safe to take, the choice between which ones to take will be decided by a doctor based on an assessment of several underlying physical conditions you may have.


When taken correctly, both pills are 99% effective at preventing pregnancy. However, this basically means that the pill needs to be taken for a period of 21 days at a stretch, at the same time every day, for it to be most effective (these 21 pills are called ‘active pills’). The combined pill has several beneficial effects in regularising the menstrual cycle by reducing heavy and painful periods, PMS symptoms like mood swings, and several symptoms of PCOS like acne, hair fall and so on. As a result, the combined pill is often the most preferred contraceptive pill of choice in comparison to the mini pill/progestin-only pill.


The COCP/ combination pills work to prevent pregnancy by preventing the ovaries from releasing an egg (this is called ovulation). So if an egg is not there to meet a sperm, fertilisation will not happen and so pregnancy is avoided. It also thickens the cervical mucus, making it harder for the sperm to travel up. The mini pill (progestin-only pill) also stops ovulation but not consistently. So in the case of the mini pill, should you choose it, it is extremely important to take the pill everyday at almost the exact same time.


Sources:

1-https://www.nhs.uk/conditions/contraception/combined-contraceptive-pill/

2-https://www.mayoclinic.org/tests-procedures/minipill/about/pac-20388306