Zoos all throughout the world defend their existence by focusing on three goals: conservation, education, and research. However, that's what the zoos want you to believe; the reality is quite different.

To put it in perspective, we keep other animals in zoos for our own amusement. We enjoy watching animals . And we like to be around them, and we like to be able to easily interact with animals without putting in any much effort. As a result, we capture wild animals and confine them in cages for our enjoyment.

In zoos, animals do not exist in their natural habitat. Animals are captured from the wild and taken to zoos as a result of this. Young animals are preferred for capture and display, but their parents get in the way. As a result, zoos frequently employ hunters to kill the parents, after which the bereaved infant animals are loaded into shipping containers and transported to their eventual destinations. Many animals die while being transported.

We erroneously believe that only humans can have a sense of purpose or participate in actions for the "common good" of our species or all species, and we dismiss animals' very real experiences. Animals in fact are social. They make friends, they make families. Zoos take that away from them. For captive animals, we restrict what they can do and with whom they can socialize. Other than that, animals are often sexually exploited there. Brutal techniques are used to get the male's semen and female animals are artificially inseminated. It's not uncommon for animals to refuse to mate given the cruel surroundings they are in. That's when zoos force them to breed. And that's not the end of their cruel fate. After this, they are separated from their babies that are taken away for attraction and displayed like they are some kind of showpiece.

When animals reach a certain age, zoos frequently decide that keeping them is not worth the expense, especially when baby animals are such box office hits compared to older animals. Animals that are "surplus" at zoos are frequently killed or sold to hunting ranches, medical laboratories, or poorly run roadside zoos.