Outspoken Trinamool Congress leader Mahua Moitra has yet again stoked a controversy - this time over her remarks on Goddess Kali. 

Moitra joined a row over a poster of a documentary film by Leena Manimekalai where a woman has been shown in the costume of Goddess Kaali, smoking a cigarette in the background of a pride flag.

Taking part in the India Today conclave, Moitra said Goddess Kaali, to her, is a meat-eating, alcohol-accepting Goddess.

"And if you go to Tarapith (a major Shakti peeth in West Bengal's Birbhum district), you will see sadhus smoking. That is the version of Kaali people worship (there). I, within Hinduism, being a Kaali worshipper, have the right to imagine Kaali in that way; that is my freedom,” she went on to say. 

Moitra further said that in Bhutan or Sikkim, deities are offered whisky which will be considered blasphemous in Uttar Pradesh.

This angered a section of the people as they demanded an apology from her. 

Moitra is known for taking a strong stand on issues dear to her heart. At times, she has taken a contradictory stand from that of her party's. 

This time, the Trinamool Congress promptly distanced itself from her remarks. 

"The comments made by Moitra and her views expressed on Goddess Kali have been made in her personal capacity and are not endorsed by the party in any manner of form. All India Trinamool Congress strongly condemns such comments," the party said.

But this reprimand did not stop her from reiterating her stand on the issue. 

"I never backed any film or poster or mentioned the word smoking. Suggest you visit my Maa Kaali in Tarapith to see what food & drink is offered as bhog. Joy Ma Tara," Moitra tweeted before posting the National Emblem with 'Satyamev Jayate' inscribed.

She later unfollowed her party's Twitter handle.

Moitra has been booked for hurting religious sentiments, prompting her to attack the BJP. 

"Bring it on BJP! Am a Kali worshipper. I am not afraid of anything. Not your ignoramuses. Not your goons. Not your police. And most certainly not your trolls. Truth does need backup forces."