Women's equality-a subject of millions of articles, stories, reports, debates, novels. 
A struggle from times immemorial, may be since Eve came out from a rib of Adam. God made a woman to complete a man but very soon she was seen as a reason for being banished from heaven. Hence, started woman’s struggle.
In histories, women have been judged for creating wars, killings, misery. Speaking out of experience even during a natural calamity ( 2014 Kashmir floods), a young boy in his 20s blamed “women like me” saying it’s God’s wrath on likes of me- asking questions, gathering news, reporting. Anyways, that's another story.
So women on their part have struggled/fought/raised voice for equality-to be considered as a thinking human, then an equal citizen. 
But the question, has the dream been realised? Is equality still an urban concept ? 
A male child gets preferred for good nutrition and education. Equal opportunities/equal pay is still a dream, whether a daily labourer or a corporate executive. 
Girls in Afghanistan are barred from entering schools or closer home not allowed to give exams for wearing hijabs, menstruating women in many cultures are considered filthy, black women are at higher risk of disease, more sexually and physically abused, when one still hear stories of child brides/ dowry deaths, when you are judged for what you wear, when you are told whom to love. When rape and abuse statistics are not getting any better. Rapist roam scot free, when abusers are protected by law, some people still see women as war bounty. When women have become a commodity.
There are stories of resilience/courage world over, and we want to recognise efforts of every single woman who is willing to make some difference not only in her own life but lives of others around her.
Because equality for all would be a reality only when no woman  gets battered in domestic abuse, when every woman has the power to chose, when every girl has the right to study, when every girl is given the right to live.
Celebrate women's equality day with us and join the debate .