Muscle hypertrophy refers to the expansion and development of muscle cells. The term "hypertrophy" refers to a muscle size increase that occurs as a result of exercise. Lifting weights is the most typical approach to boost hypertrophy during a workout if you want to tone or improve muscular definition.

What is the concept of muscle hypertrophy?

Muscle hypertrophy can be divided into two types:

myofibrillar: growth of muscle contraction parts

sarcoplasmic: increased glycogen storage in the muscles

Your fitness goals will determine which type you should concentrate on. Strength and speed will benefit from myofibrillar training. Sarcoplasmic development aids in providing your body with greater prolonged energy for endurance sports.

You can lift a big weight for fewer reps or accomplish numerous repetitions (reps) at a lesser weight when weightlifting. The manner you lift has an impact on how your muscles develop and evolve.

For example, you can build muscle tone with a lesser weight, but you'll need to do a lot of repetitions to improve muscle fibre efficiency. You won't see much muscle definition with this workout method unless you do a lot of repetitions until you're exhausted.

Using a heavy weight, on the other hand, is a good idea.

You must have both mechanical damage and metabolic exhaustion to gain muscle through weightlifting. When you lift a big weight, your muscles' contractile proteins must generate force to overcome the weight's resistance.

As a result, structural injury to the muscles may occur. The body responds to mechanical injury to muscle proteins by triggering a repair reaction. Muscle size increases as a result of broken fibres in muscle proteins.

Mechanical exhaustion happens when the available supply of ATP, an energy component that helps your muscles contract, is depleted in muscle fibres. They are no longer able to fuel muscle contractions or are unable to lift the weight effectively. This can result in muscular gain as well.
Achieving muscle hypertrophy necessitates both mechanical and metabolic strain.