Researchers at Charité – Universitätsmedizin Berlin have achieved several breakthroughs that might help improve the treatment of dystonia, a neurological movement disease. Their results, which were published in the journal PNAS, reveal that very particular brain networks must be engaged in order to alleviate the symptoms of various forms of dystonia.
Dystonia is an uncommon neurological condition that causes uncontrollable twisting and distorting motions and postures. Dystonia may make it difficult for people to do everyday tasks including drinking, walking, and speaking. Dystonia affects roughly 160,000 persons in Germany. Generalized dystonia, which affects the whole body, and localised dystonia, which affects just certain areas of the body, are two types of dystonia. Cervical dystonia is a kind of dystonia that affects the neck. Although the fundamental origins of the disorder are unknown, doctors believe that symptoms are caused by incorrect interactions between certain parts of the brain, which result in aberrant signal transmission. Genetic abnormalities may also play a role, depending on the kind of dystonia implicated.
A neurosurgical operation involving the insertion of electrodes into particular parts of the brain is one therapy option offered to people with dystonia. The electrodes, once implanted, transmit mild electrical impulses that aid in the restoration of normal brain function. Deep brain stimulation, often known as DBS, is a technique that includes the installation of a pacemaker-like device and is frequently the sole therapeutic option for symptom alleviation.
"Until now, the precision with which this stimulation has to be adapted to the symptoms seen in different types of dystonia was not clear," says study lead Prof. Dr. Andrea Kühn, who is Head of the Movement Disorders and Neuromodulation Section of the Department of Neurology and Experimental Neurology and Spokesperson of the 'ReTune' Transregional Collaborative Research Center (SFB/Transregio TRR 295), which helped to support the current study.