By Abhishek Kumar
On September 13, Iran’s ‘Morality Police’ arrested 22-year-old Mahsa Amini from Tehran for not wearing her hijab according to official dictates. Mehsa Amini died three days later, allegedly in police custody, on September 16. Following the incident, protests have been raging across Iran. According to a report by the Iran Human Rights Organization, 75 protesters have been killed by security forces so far.
Against this backdrop, a video of some people standing with coffins on their shoulders with a dancing elderly man in front of them is viral on social media. It is being claimed that a father had promised his daughter that he would dance at her wedding, but is now dancing on her grave. The daughter was purportedly killed by the Iranian regime for protesting against the killing of civilians over how they wore their hijabs.
Pakistani journalist Ahmed Quraishi shared the video, claiming that the man seen dancing in front of the coffin in the video was the father of 22-year-old Mahsa Amini, whose death in police custody has sparked protests in Iran. (Archived link)
( Link://twitter.com/_AhmedQuraishi/status/1576129617160986624?t=EJSmEXr4sjBVagRBCloKDQ&s=19)
Another user tweeted the video with a similar claim. It garnered over 4.5 lakh views as of this writing. (Archived link)
Another user named Pallavi amplified the video claiming that it featured the father of a woman who was killed for protesting against the killing of civilians over hijabs. (Archived link)
The video is attracting a lot of traction on social media platforms in several countries. JK Rowling, author of the popular fantasy novel series Harry Potter, also retweeted the clip. 
Fact-check
Alt News performed a keyword search related to the viral video, and found a tweet posted by Iran’s official news channel Press TV. In this tweet, the outlet dismissed the viral claim and added that this video was part of a Turkish drama named Ata Ocaği.
Read the full story here:- https://www.altnews.in/iran-hijab-raw-turky-drama-scene-shared-as-an-iran-man-dancing-his-daughter-funeral/?utm_source=website&utm_medium=social-media&utm_campaign=newpost