First of all the question arises, why we Indians are so tend to compare anything and everything with international standards. We have achieved significant laurels within the border of the nation. Lets appreciate, applaud and be proud of that first. 

Now coming to bollywood movies, it's the source of entertainment or the source of refreshment from our regular hustle and tussle of life. Those are the movies, which make us cry, laugh, inspire, etc every time we watch. At times they give a beautiful message, for example movies like Pk, 3 idiots, bajrangi bhaijan etc. Now coming to comparison with the Hollywood cinema, here are the reasons why bollywood movies rocks it 

1. In bollywood, the movies are filled with emotions and are more dramatic giving the audience a perfect blend of all the spices, whereas Hollywood movies are pretty straightforward or sometimes even more monotonous.

2. The songs and the music makes us come on the floor, whereas in Hollywood individual albums shine, but the movie songs are not much to the demand.

3. Dialogues, can you just imagine the Dialogues of movies from 80s 90s are still whistled by the new generations. Can you name one Hollywood movie dialogue from 1980, which this generation appreciates ? 

4. Diversity, In bollywood movies you'll find variety of characters, lots of diversity when we speak of places, culture, emotions etc 

5. Bollywood movies are colorful, and lively a present a beautiful perspective of life, where as Hollywood movies are just to sophisticated.

6. There few actors and actresses from bollywood, who have shined internationally, how amazing this could be! 

7. Bollywood is great at filming biopic, which describes a beautiful journey of an individual to the upcoming generations.

8. Bollywood movies are made at low budget, but still manages to earn a good amount from the box office.

9. Bollywood greatly contributes to the economy of the nation.

10. Last but not the least, we can enjoy a bollywood movie with our entire family. This is not the case with various Hollywood movies. 

I have tried to Include all the best of bollywood above
Thank you