By Chandra Bindu

Patna (Bihar): Who will replace Nitish Kumar as the Chief Minister in Bihar, if he succumbs to the Bharatiya Janata Party’s (BJP) pressure and agrees for his rehabilitation at the Centre?

Will he be a close confidante of Union Home Minister Amit Shah and former state BJP chief Nityanand Rai or any other surprising pick?

Growing assertions of the BJP in governance matters particularly after the party’s historic win at Uttar Pradesh and isolated statements of some senior party leaders to claim the CM’s post lay credence to the saffron brigade’s plan for the likely transfer of power in Bihar.

Party insiders confide that many senior leaders have already started lobbying at the national BJP headquarters to draw the blessings of the top brasses. However, as things stand today, the Union minister of state for home, Nityanand Rai is being considered the most suitable replacement for Kumar in keeping with the caste arithmetic of the state.

"Former deputy CM Sushil Kumar Modi is out of the scene, as he was relieved from the state politics and made the Rajya Sabha (RS) member. He has been fallen from the grace owing to his proximity with Kumar. Former opposition leaders Nand Kishore Yadav and Prem Kumar are unable to demonstrate their calibre to lead the government,” said a senior party leader, pleading anonymity.

"Rai is close to Union Home Minister Amit Shah, who acknowledged the former’s ability to wean away a sizable chunk of Yadav’s community from the Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) and made him his deputy in the Cabinet. Shah had promised the electors of Rai’s constituency that he would be inducted in the Union Cabinet and he stood by his words after the results,” recalled another senior leader.

Party leaders believed that Rai’s non-controversial image and his unflinching loyalty to the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) are other pluses for him of being considered for the CM’s choice in the next reshuffle, likely in the next couple of months. 

Read the full story here:- https://www.newsdrum.in/news/bihars-game-of-thrones-nityanand-rai-emerges-as-bjps-strongest-pick-to-replace-nitish-kumar-in-strategic-power-shift-10031.html