Arsenal defeated Leicester 2-1 at Highbury 15 years ago today, becoming the first team to go through a league season without losing since Preston North End in the late 1800s.

We confirmed our 'Invincible' status 20 days after winning the league title at White Hart Lane, with second-half goals from Thierry Henry and Patrick Vieira, an achievement that has still to be repeated.

Since that lovely sunny day in N5, a lot has changed. Players and coaches have come and gone throughout the years. We've relocated. A billionaire from the United States owns us. The game has been flooded with cash. Clubs with a lot of money are the best. And we're no longer on top of the heap. We haven't won a championship since then.


#32. Jens Lehmann
After being forced out of Arsenal following Arsene Wenger's departure, the German took up a coaching position with Bundesliga side Augsburg in January. With the club administration worried about the prospect of relegation, he was forced out along with head coach Michael Baum after only three months. On occasion, works as a pundit on German television.

#31. Ashley Cole
Former teammate Frank Lampard offered him a one-year deal at Derby County after two years in the MLS. In their attempt for promotion, the Rams face Leeds in the second leg of their semi-final playoff.

#30. Patrick Vieira
He spent the previous few years honing his coaching skills with Manchester City's junior team as well as two seasons with Major League Soccer's New York City FC.

#29. Martin Keown
A well-known pundit who appears on both BBC and BT Sport's programming. After hanging up his boots, he dabbled in coaching, including a brief stint in command of the Oxford University Blues and a few months at London Colney.

#28. Robert Pires
Robert is a frequent visitor to London Colney, but he has yet to get a permanent place on the coaching staff. We're not sure if he's even allowed on the training grounds, but people are probably too afraid of him to say anything. He appears to have an ambassadorial role and participates in a lot of charity matches.