Just like with everything else in life, we want our skincare products to show quicker and better results. We are no longer okay with a moisturiser that simply hydrates, we want something that protects against free radicals, offers UV protection, delivers anti-ageing benefits and what not.

Face massage practices have been around for centuries. This practice involves gently, yet firmly, massaging the nerves on your face to relieve tension, soothe aching muscles, as well as provide a bit of mental release. Facial massages have been a part of skin care procedures in a lot of cultures.

Including a face massage tool in your daily skincare routine has a lot more benefits than you can imagine. It helps in draining lymphatic fluids to reduce puffiness, eliminates toxins from the skin to make it appear clearer, improves blood circulation to give your complexion a rosy glow. 

FACE MASSAGE TOOLS: 

1. Jade rollers are the most common and easily available facial massage tools. They are fairly simple to use and feature a jade roller each on both ends. 

2. Cleansing pods are made from silicone with a textured front and vibrating abilities to pull out deep-set dirt, sweat, oil and debris that your normal double cleanse routine or 60-second cleansing rule wouldn’t be able to achieve. Apart from extracting dirt, the massaging abilities of the device relax your muscles and help you sleep better. 

3. Facial massage wands contain small stones that also deliver acupressure benefits. These wands work really well to help tone your skin, tighten sagging skin as well as refresh, rejuvenate and re-energize dull and tired-looking skin.

4. Another super handy face massage tool is the twin ball face massager, The main purpose of this face massager is to provide your skin with intense kneading action to improve blood circulation, release tension, relax facial muscles and provide a slimming and sculpting effect

5. Another addition to the facial massage tools category is sculpting bars. The main function of this tool is to tighten, tone and skin, thereby providing incredible anti-ageing benefits.