A Covid-19 patient not only comes up with lung disease, but also a slew of other allied health issues such as abnormal blood clotting, problems in the heart, brain, muscle or diseases that can affect the gastrointestinal tract, from vomiting to diarrhoea.

“In a covid patient, all these co-morbidities act together, unlike a patient with any other respiratory illness. The disease also progresses rapidly, going into situations where you cannot maintain patients without ventilator,” said Dr Talwar. 

“A patient who has recovered from covid will have more residual damage in the lungs by the end of two years, than someone who has recovered from a viral pneumonia.”

Expanding medical technology
In March 2020, soon after the World Health Organisation declared covid-19, a pandemic, the American Thorasic Society and the European Respiratory Society issued an advisory, asking doctors to limit lung function tests—the crux of pulmonary diagnostics— in patients, as they could represent a potential avenue for covid-19 transmission. The use of CT scans too was limited only to diagnosing covid-19 patients. 

The restrictions, meanwhile, led to the popularity and growth of two new technologies among doctors, paramedical staff and patients: Vyaire impulse oscillometery and spirometry. 

“What made Vyaire technology popular was that it could be performed on patients without the risk of spreading infection,” said Dr Talwar. “Our testing time too was shortened drastically, to five minutes, compared to conventional lung function tests, which took up to half an hour.”

Says S Ganesh Prasad, Founder, MD & CEO Genworks Health ‘’ At Genworks, our constant endeavour has been to bring best in class technology from the best companies in the world unrepresented in India and provide distribution access through our strong distribution team ahead of time to impact early diagnosis and focussed treatment.’’

‘’We identified Vyaire before the pandemic as they provided cutting edge technology & a complete range of Lung Diagnostics portfolio starting from a Spirometer that is FDA approved to a high-end Body Plethysmograph equipment. Now, during the pandemic we have been able to accelerate adoption from major cities to small towns.’’ Says Ganesh Prasad.

(Concludes)