We know the ideal duration of sleep at night is 7 but how does this affect our brain and its functioning ? Let's find more about that and why it is important to get 7 hours of sleep especially while we age is also being looked into in the new study. 

Barbara Sahakian, from the University of Cambridge's department of psychiatry, in England, the study author explains that, "Getting a good night's sleep is important at all stages of life, but particularly as we age. Finding ways to improve sleep for older people could be crucial to helping them maintain good mental health and well-being and avoiding cognitive decline, particularly for patients with psychiatric disorders and dementias." 

The investigators of the study observed the data on sleeping patterns, mental health and well being from closely 500,000 British adults who were aged between 38 to 73 and they completed a series of thinking tests. 40,000 participants had their brain imaging and genetic data available. 

According to the study thats published in the journal Nature Aging seven hours of sleep at each night is good for a sound cognitive (thinking) performance and mental health. 

Participants who get too little or too much of sleep did show its effects on the tests that measure their processing speed, virtual attention, memory and problem solving skills. They had more symptoms like anxiety and depression and their overall mental well being was declining. 

The study also finds an association between amount of sleep and the differences seen in the structures of the brain regions that's involved in the cognitive processing and memory. It is noted that there were greater changes that was associated with less or more sleep of seven hours a night. 

The findings tell that too little or too much of sleep could be a risk factor and it could lead to mental decline as people age. 

Other studies done previously also reports a link between the amount of sleep and the risk of forming Alzheimer’s disease and dementia. 

Sources - https://www.webmd.com/