Winnie Wambui - An Untold Story 

A 23-year-old Footballer and a Single mother Winnie Wambui Kamau.

Who lives with her grandmother and works at a Safaricom dealer shop in the Njabini Trading Center in Nyandarua County, departed her customary house in preparation for her shift.

She sent over Valencia Wangui, her one and a half-year-old child, to her 60-year-old grandma.

One of the strikers on the women's Karangatha football team known as the Morvel Dada's is Wambui, a single mother.

In honour of International Women's Day, Nyandarua woman MP Faith-Gitau organised a female football tournament at Karangatha stadium.

That afternoon, her team would play host to the Njabini football team.But her biggest hurdle was managing the match and breastfeeding her baby.

"That particular day, my grandmother was to leave for some business so as to earn a living. We had agreed that I would go with the baby since I could not afford to miss the match. This is our usual arrangement even when I go to train after work. I left work at 10 am and went to the stadium after picking the baby from home," she told.

As she was chosen to join the first half squad, she asked her teammates for help in holding the infant.

"I had a difficult day during the game; I didn't understand why the infant was wailing just before the game began. She cried nonstop even after I tried to breastfeed her, she said.

I begged to God that she would stop crying as the match's first whistle blew, she said.

But when she was seen breastfeeding the child during halftime, her images on social media went viral.

"During halftime, I went to breastfeed the infant. I was shocked to get calls from individuals congratulating me on the nobble course from all across the nation," she said.

She balances her responsibilities for her grandmother's care, employment,and football.

“It is a promise I made to God that my child will never lack.I am separated from the father of my child after some differences. But when he can,he helps me,"she said. 

Mothers are Superhumans made by god ❤