Amazon’s billion dollar series ‘The Lord Of The Rings: Rings of Power’ based on J.R.R Tolkien’s beloved high fantasy novels was released on September 2, and needless to say it did not receive the best reception.  However, that is putting it mildly as the show has been so loathed by fans, that it has been review bombed on Amazon, for while its Rotten Tomatoes rating stands at 84%, its audience reception is a horrible 39% and dropping.
 
 There are various reasons for this bad reception. Some reviews have claimed that the series is unfaithful to the OG series, particularly when it comes to its depiction of certain characters, including its depiction of people of colour and focus on identity politics. 
 
It is undoubtedly true that The Rings of Power does indeed feature a much more diverse cast than previous adaptations, and female characters are given much more agency and focus as well. Some fans have attributed much of this change towards a level of disrespect for Tolkien’s work and Amazon’s attempts to make Middle Earth ‘woke’. No matter the reason for fan aversion, due to the review bombing, Amazon has gone so far as to prohibit review writing of the show.
 
Showrunners on the other hand have strongly denied that The Rings of Power is promoting a woke message, stating that modern politics have not influenced the show. The producers have also hired Tolkien experts to assist in the creation process to attempt to stay as true to material as possible. 
 
Morfydd Clark who plays Galadriel in the show has responded to the criticism of her character in the show. In an interview on Variety Clark addressed the criticism "I would say that her serenity is hard-earned," she explained. "I don’t think you get to that level of wisdom without going through things. She actually speaks about [how] with wisdom, there is a loss of innocence, which was a really good thing for me to find in the lore. Because, like, how young are you when you’re still thousands of years old? So it was thinking of what innocence she lost during this time."