Two were shot in the chest, two in the head, two killed when out for a smoke, two on their way home. ‘Protestors died in firing among themselves:’ Uttar Pradesh’s police chief said in Decemeber 2019 when 5 young Muslim daily wage workers were shot dead, as protests raged against India’s discriminatory citizenship law. Despite eyewitnesses and family complaints naming officers, the police over two years have not even registered a first information report.

“Nothing happened in two years, what will happen now? Only if the government changes after the election in February might something move.” 

Wasim Malik, 29, had little hope that the killers of his brother Mohsin—just two years older—would ever be punished. Mohsin was just 28 years old when he fell to allegedly police bullets.

Over the two years since 20 December 2019, police in the western Uttar Pradesh (UP) district of Meerut, about 100 km northeast of Delhi, refused to file even a first information report (FIR), the first step to a police investigation.

“Jumma padh kar, khana kha ke, bacche ko cheej dila kar, chaara laaney ke liye ghar se nikla tha, tabhi Bhumia ke pul par use goli maar di. After his prayers and a meal, Mohsin gave the children some snacks and left home to buy fodder,” said Wasim. 

That’s when they shot him on the bridge of Bhumia,” said Mohsin's mother Nafisa Begum, 55, sobbing, as she spoke to Article 14 about the killing of her son in alleged police firing during the protest against the contentious, discriminatory law called the Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA), 2019.

On the day Mohsin was killed, protests against the CAA and the associated National Register of Citizens (NRC) were underway in various UP cities, and especially in Meerut, with UP’s second-highest death toll after Firozabad, where seven died.

At least 25 Muslims across India were shot allegedly in police firing, 18 in UP alone and hundreds injured in a UP police crackdown. 

Read more- https://article-14.com/post/24-months-after-5-killed-in-meerut-in-police-crackdown-on-anti-caa-protests-no-probe-no-answers-61e8ce841aeef