US retailer Macy's has told its IT vendors of a 10-15% drop in the IT budget for this year amid worries of a recession, a development that may impact IT companies. According to informed sources, the company's decision may have an influence on new projects, which are likely to see delays.

Tata Consultancy Services (TCS), Accenture, Cognizant, and Infosys are a few of the IT companies that collaborate with Macy's. One of these businesses' top 5–10 customers is Macy's.

"They (Macy's) wrote to all of their suppliers explaining that they are taking this action to minimise costs. Impact on the discretionary budget will be between 10% and 15%. The ongoing initiatives will continue, but the new projects may be affected, according to a source from a company who received Macy's email. 

Macy's did not respond to an email seeking comment. In a similar vein, emails made to TCS and Accenture did not receive a response. A representative for Infosys said, "We do not comment on customer engagements."

The CMD of Cognizant India, Rajesh Nambiar, also declined to comment on the matter.

One of the first US shops to disclose spending reductions is Macy's. Several US shops have noticed that inflation is harming their profitability and sales even as the recession discussion continues. Walmart reduced its forecast for quarterly and annual profits earlier this week due to inflation and consumers' reduced usage of discretionary spending.

Shopify, a Canadian company, reported a 10% increase in employee headcount in response to a decline in online retail revenues. Many retailers, including Target, Macy's, and Khol's, have seen declines in their stock prices.

Despite the recent management commentary from leading IT services providers exuding optimism, pressure seems to be coming from either verticals or geographical areas.

Infosys noted there have been discussions about a recession and rising interest rates, and it also sees pressure on segments like the mortgage businesses within the financial services sector. Infosys increased its full-year revenue growth guidance to 14-16%.