Weightlifter Jeremy Lalrinnunga has made India proud by winning gold medal in the 22nd Commonwealth Games 2022 in Birmingham. Jeremy was born on October 26, 2002, in Aizawl, Mizoram. Lalrinnunga's mother is Lalmuanpuii. His  father is Lalneihtluanga Ralte, who was a boxing prodigy of Mizoram 's circuit in early 90's. Jeremy is also very close to his younger brother Jerry. Jeremy comes from a lowly background because his family circumstances prevented him for a very long time from pursuing his aspirations. He began working as a labourer on contract with the Neighborhood Power Works department in an effort to provide for his family.
Jeremy, unlike his father began boxing before beginning to lift weights. In 2016 he won silver medals in youth world championship and Asian youth championship respectively.He made history by becoming the first Indian to win a Gold medal at the Youth Olympics in the men's 62 kg category in 2018. Before competing in an international competition, Jeremy was a member of the Army's Boys Sports Company where he earned multiple medals.In Kolkata in 2020, he also triumphed in the national championships.

At the 2019 world weightlifting championships, Lalrinnunga finished at 21st rank at men's 67 kg event. He won gold in the 2022 commonwealth games, in the 67 kg category, with a game record lift of 140 kg in snatch and 160 kg in clean and jerk.

Weightlifter Jeremy Lalrinnunga was accorded a hero's welcome as he returned home in Aizawl after winning a gold medal for India at the Birmingham Commonwealth Games.

He was received by Mizoram Sports minister and Mizoram Olympic association president Robert Romawia Royte, ruling Mizo National Front  MLA Zothantluanga, senior officials and family members at the Lengpui airport on Monday.

The weightlifter said he will prepare for the Paris Olympics to be held in 2024. Where he will participate in the 73 kg category. He urged the Mizo youths to stick to their goals with a strong determination and abstain from drugs and alcohol.