Finally after such a long time, Ewan McGregor is back as the iconic character Obi-Wan Kenobi. Star Wars fans all around the world have been rejoicing since the series was announced. Now the fans are in complete awe as they've seen their Obi-Wan again. 

Ewan McGregor's Obi-Wan can be seen tantoine looking after "the chosen one" , young Luke Skywalker. The series has been promoted with the makers teasing the rematch of the century. That will happen between Obi-Wan and Anakin Skywalker, Anakin would've become Darth Vader completely in this series. Hayden Christensen will finally get to reprise his role as Anakin/Vader.

Their battle in Star Wars: Revenge of the Sith, has given cinema some of the most memorable dialogues and now both of these characters return. We know how their stories end as it has already been shown in the original Star Wars trilogy. This series is a kind of love letter to all the fans asking for the character of Obi-Wan to be explored. 
The series is set 10 years after the events of The Revenge of the Sith. The Galactic Empire is searching for the last remnants of the Jedi Order.  
The official premise of the series reads the following, “The story begins 10 years after the dramatic events of “Star Wars: Revenge of the Sith” where Obi-Wan Kenobi faced his greatest defeat—the downfall and corruption of his best friend and Jedi apprentice, Anakin Skywalker, who turned to the dark side as evil Sith Lord Darth Vader. The series stars Ewan McGregor, reprising his role as the iconic Jedi Master, and also marks the return of Hayden Christensen in the role of Darth Vader. Joining the cast are Moses Ingram, Joel Edgerton, Bonnie Piesse, Kumail Nanjiani, Indira Varma, Rupert Friend, O’Shea Jackson Jr., Sung Kang, Simone Kessell and Benny Safdie.”

After the success of the Mandalorian and The Book of Boba Fett, it'll be interesting how things transpire in this one. The series premieres on 25th May. 

Here is the link for the teaser trailer:
https://youtu.be/TWTfhyvzTx0