Fatness is generally associated with lethargy and bad eating, and as a result of this widespread disrespect, fat women are frequently disadvantaged in professional jobs. In the professional world, there is a fatphobia environment in which being overweight can hinder promotions, pay, and general feedback, which has a direct influence on overweight people. If you think about it, it could lead to reduced salaries, causing people to eat less expensive fast food, increasing their risk of obesity.

Fatphobia is the fear of being fat, but in a more colloquial sense, it is the prejudice towards fat individuals based only on their weight. Fatphobia is not gender-neutral, and women have been subjected to more scrutiny than men as a result of the significance placed on youthfulness and beauty in women.

What's more alarming is that there is a predisposition against overweight and obese people in the medical field. Women are disproportionately affected by this because many illnesses affecting their reproductive systems, such as PCOS and endometriosis, mention weight gain as a symptom as well as a cause. The 60-billion-dollar weight-loss industry has propagated the myth that being thin is the only optimal body size and spread false information about how being overweight equals being unwell. This generates a bias against overweight women because, even if their weight gain is caused by the disorder, doctors frequently treat it as a cause and suggest lifestyle adjustments rather than more effective therapies. 

The need to raise more awareness and make the general public understand that the information associated with being fat is incorrect, as well as encourage studies that show the global scope of an overweight or obese individual, could help individuals overcome the stereotypes they face on a daily basis as a result of fatphobia. It's also important to recognise that women are more vulnerable to fatphobia's hazards, and recognising fatphobia a gendered and racial issue will help everyone have equal chances and experiences.