Living in today’s age, we’ve all become privy to the overuse of social media. We seem to want to share every experience, every detail , from the food we eat to the movie we last watched. Researchers have have begun to question if this endless cycle of posting and scrolling is actually doing anything. 
In my personal opinion we’re all on a platform where all kinds of things are happening, we experience so much from all around the world, so much that we’re actually losing our ability to be surprised anymore. 
Well we all know how toxic social media can be, constant comparison, bad news, trolls, unrealistic standards and there is so much more that can be dangerously unhealthy for all of us. 
For this concern people have started distancing themselves from social media, Whether it be taking a few days off deleting it entirely. Now more than ever people are giving themselves a well deserved social media cleanse. 
Here are some reasons why you may want to take a break for your physical and mental health. 

SLEEPING BETTER! 
Social media plays a huge factor in the sleep we get. After finding yourself aimlessly scrolling for hours, it’s incredibly difficult to fall asleep. Artificial light (from your phone) disrupts your body’s ability to produce melatonin. Studies show that using your phone before bed is one of the worst habits. Keep your phone aside 30 minutes before going to bed. 
SOCIAL INTERACTION 
Most of us are guilting sitting next to a friend and not talking whilst scrolling on our phones. Using your phone instead of interacting with the person you’re with will definitely affect your social relationships. Taking a break for a few hours will be truly good for your social life. 
YOU WILL STOP FEELING SO COMPETITIVE 
Even if you aren’t aware of it, social media brings out your competitive side. 
Social media networks like Instagram shows you the best side of people. Nobody posts their ugly or poor side. Seriously don’t compare yourself to Instagram models it’s mostly photoshop nobody actually looks like that in real life.