For those who don’t know, Alter Bridge is essentially 3/4 composed of Creed itself, yet qualitatively, artistically and musically, it is miles and miles better than Creed, but why is it so?
For one, Creed was almost entirely dominated by singer Scott Stapp’s vision of the band, which made them essentially a radio rock band who would often profess the Christian faith. They had some good heavy riffs, but little else as the music became as formulaic and predictable as it could get. There were also no real guitar solos, which is a shame, because Mark Tremonti is a beast on guitar. Plus Scott Stapp’s voice does start to get on your nerves after a while with his discount Eddie Vedder (Pearl Jam) style vocals. Myles Kennedy on the other hand is an awesome vocalist with a brilliant range and some great guitar skills.
 As a band Alter Bridge became everything that Creed could have become but never did. While Creed from the get go has stylistically been very limited, Alter Bridge became a lot more, and while they initially had traces of Creed on their debut, they completely became their own thing after Blackbird. Furthermore, it seems that Alter Bridge was never dominated by just one man’s vision, allowing them to fully expand and hone in on their actual talent.
 Creed has a pretty good sense of melody, they know how to create good hooks and catchy choruses. Alter Bridge on the other hand, while lacking the commercial aspects of Creed, not only had melody, but also heaviness, variation, emotion and complexity. It is unreal how good the instrumentalists of Creed are in reality when they are not tied down by anything, when they go full bonkers. 
Creed is a radio friendly band with a lot of mainstream sensibilities while Alter Bridge has a style more similar to 70s and 80s hard rock/heavy metal bands with modern production. Alter Bridge is never going to achieve the same level of commercial success as Creed, but their music is far superior to anything Creed has ever produced or ever could produce.