By Kaswar Klasra

Islamabad: A senior government official confirmed on Saturday that the backdoor channel between Pakistan and India, the Nuclear-armed South Asian neighbours, was working well and that the two sides may resume the process of dialogue soon.

"Two sides have been maintaining close contact behind the door. You may call it Track-2 diplomacy. In fact, behind the curtain diplomacy has always been working well between two sides. However, Track-2 diplomacy worked wonderfully during the last couple of years. Results were more than expected," a senior Pakistani official told 'News Drum' on condition of anonymity. 

"Did you notice that guns have been silent across the LOC for a couple of years? Two sides have stopped accusing each other of their problems. Above all, Indian goods are making their way to Afghanistan passing through Pakistan. These are only a few outcomes of the backdoor channel of Track-2 diplomacy," said the official who is, in fact, among a few officials in Pakistan tasked with initiating and monitoring the backdoor channel with India.

When asked about the possibility of resumption of bilateral talks between Pakistan and India, the official said that the ice is melting between arch-rivals and a breakthrough was expected in this regard soon.

"Things are moving ahead in the right direction. Two sides are on the way to resuming dialogue soon. We are working on it," said the official adding that Pakistan and India may restore the full diplomatic relations in a couple of months.

The off the record conversation and background interviews with government officials have revealed that Pakistan's business community has been asking the previous governments to restore the bilateral relationship. However, authorities didn't pay attention to their requests.

"Business community in Pakistan was badly affected following the downgrading of Pakistan-India bilateral relationship. Especially the textile sector was worst hit as import of high graded cotton yarn from India has been stopped," government officials this correspondent spoke to revealed.

Read the full story here:- https://www.newsdrum.in/national/indo-pak-ties-pak-officials-confirm-backdoor-channel-working-between-pakistan-and-india-40129.html