Madhuri Dixit, one of the brightest and most enduring Bollywood stars, is basking in the success of her streaming acting debut, Netflix’s “The Fame Game.”
The series bowed Feb. 25 and is among the top 10 Netflix shows in Mauritius, Bahrain, Bangladesh, India, Maldives, Oman, Pakistan, Qatar, Sri Lanka and the U.A.E.
In the series created by Sri Rao, and directed by Bejoy Nambiar and Karishma Kohli, Dixit plays top Bollywood star Anamika Anand, who at the height of her fame, disappears without a trace. The officer in charge of the investigation (Rajshri Deshpande) attempts to peel back the layers of the star’s seemingly perfect life by talking to her troubled producer husband (Sanjay Kapoor), domineering mother (Suhasini Mulay), conflicted children (Muskkaan Jaferi, Lakshvir Saran), a loyal housekeeper (Shubhangi Latkar), makeup artist (Kashyap Shangari) and frequent co-star (Manav Kaul). Also in the mix is an obsessive fan (Gagan Arora). People have imagined her to be the ideal, perfect person with the perfect life – why should she disappear? And then how all the secrets come out, I thought that was very fascinating,” Dixit told Variety. “A lot of things that she’s going through are so real in life.”

The series takes a clear-eyed and closely-observed look at the road to fame and the price of it, the effect it has on the people behind and around a superstar and the financing of Bollywood. It blurs the lines between Dixit and Anand, blending as it does clips, photographs and hit songs from the actor’s real-life hit films along with film sequences shot specially for the show. It also features several well-known Bollywood venues. Some of the characters are clearly based on household names.
Dixit describes the world of “The Fame Game” as a “metaverse” that combines real and reel. “To establish her as a big star, I think they took a little bit from my life where people should know, ‘Oh, she’s a big star like Madhuri Dixit’ – she’s that stature and at that height of her career,” says Dixit.