Cozy Korean Winter Food
1. WOOUNG JORIM 
Traditionally, root vegetables were enjoyed by Koreans in winter because of their accessibility and health benefits. Burdock root contains a high level of fiber and boosts the immune system. Don't worry though! Although the burdock root is medicinal, this dish is still sweet and tasty.
2. DONGCHIMI
Radish is high in vitamin C and it is a natural fever reducer. It tastes great with steamed sweet potatoes,rice, or noodles.
3. MUL-NAENGMYEON 
Koreans believe you can overcome heat with heat, and cold with cold. Although popular in the summer, mul-naengmyeon was originally a winter dish. Before refrigeration, ice was only available in the winter for this dish.
4. DDEOKGUK 
Ddeokguk is a traditional soup eaten on New Year's Day in Korea. It symbolizes getting one year older. However, Koreans do enjoy this dish for ordinary meals as well. The flavorful broth paired with rice cakes and dumplings makes this soup a filling and satisfying meal.
5. SEOLLEONGTANG 
Seolleongtang is one of the most popular soups in Korea. It's a nourishing soup packed full of protein and calcium. Mothers love to prepare this soup to enhance health and stamina for the family.
6. DANPATJUK  
Traditionally, this dessert was eaten on the Winter Solstice.It's a sweet porridge made from red beans with smallglutinous rice flour balls floating at the surface. Koreans enjoy this dish as a snack.
7. ROASTED SWEET POTATOES AND CHESTNUTS
Roasted sweet potatoes and chestnuts are a tasty, popular winter street food. But you can certainly roast them at home as a hearty snack for your family. 
8. HOBBANG 
Steamed buns are a perfect winter treat to warm up from the cold weather. The buns are filled with a sweet bean paste or savory/sweet fillers such as kimchi, squash, and sweet potatoes. My mouth is salivating just talking about it.
9. YUJACHA 
Yujacha is an herbal tea made from the citrus fruit yuzu. It resembles marmalade or fruit preserves. Yujacha is a great herbal remedy for common colds as it is high in vitamin C, and it's also sweet to comfort your soul.