US-supported Kurdish-led militia recaptured control of a prison in northeastern Syria where Islamic State (IS) fighters launched a massive attack to free their fellow militants, announced a spokesperson of the coalition. The alliance – also known as the Syrian Democratic Forces (SDF) – had been fighting, backed by US-led airstrikes, for nearly a week as they’d holed up more than 100 IS fighters at Ghweran prison in Hasakah.

The ISIS fighters launched the attack last Thursday (January 20) detonating three car bombs and stormed into the prison complex that holds more than 3,000 IS detainees, most of them imprisoned after the militant groups were defeated by US-led coalition in 2019. While the militants struck the entrance and ambushed the guards, some of them sneaked inside burning blankets and plastic items to create smoke and chaos, according to the Kurdish prison guards. Then they took the kitchen staff hostage and continued the gunfight.  

The assault killed over 100 people, including 27 Kurdish forces and civilians, and hundreds of detainees managed to escape in the melee. Thousands of civilians in the area  also fled in the process.    

The well-coordinated assault, siege and gunfight are unmistakable signs that IS has regrouped and is very much alive. In a similar move the IS had freed more than 500 of its imprisoned members from the notorious Abu Ghraib prison in Baghdad.

After the group was toppled in 2019 it was believed that over 10,000 of the fighters disintegrated into remote areas of Syria and Iraq and existed as sleeper cells. But the prison attack proves beyond any doubt that they are ready for signature assaults with car bombs and waves of guerrilla fighters.

This should serve as a wake-up call for the US-led coalition and other regional players that the fight against IS is still not over and the militants should not be considered as a spent force. They may still arise and try to capture their self-proclaimed caliphate in Iraq and Syria.

READ MORE: https://www.latimes.com/world-nation/story/2022-01-26/foiled-prison-break-syria-fears-islamic-state-resurgence  

https://www.nytimes.com/2022/01/25/world/middleeast/isis-syria.html

https://www.aljazeera.com/news/2022/1/24/syria-prison-attack-shows-isil-absolutely-growing-stronger