While remote work during the pandemic has its own challenges, now that many people are back in the office in some capacity, they are finding it more stressful and anxiety-triggering than they anticipated.

According to a study by McKinsey, 1 in 3 employees say that returning to work has had a negative impact on their mental health, making them anxious and depressed.

Social anxiety may be a core reason a lot of people are nervous about going back into the office, said Naomi Torres-Mackie, PhD, clinical psychologist at Lenox Hill Hospital and head of research at the Mental Health Coalition.

“Connecting over Zoom is very different from connecting in person, and two years into the pandemic, we are all a bit rusty when it comes to our social skills,” she told Healthline.

Lingering COVID-19 anxiety and fear of getting sick is also partially to blame.

“With the guidelines and situation changing daily, it can be difficult to feel secure that the pandemic is stable enough to be safe to return to in-person work,” said Torres-Mackie.

Plus, change itself is never easy. For instance, pre-pandemic most people were used to leaving home and going in to their workplace. However, the pandemic forced many workers to adjust to remote work. And now, returning to the office is yet another adjustment.

“Even positive adjustments can be difficult. There is psychological comfort in routine, and when a routine becomes upended, it can trigger anxious cognitions, feelings of worry and unease, and low mood,” Torres-Mackie said.

Additionally, returning to a negative work environment can trigger stress, said Natasha Bowman, JD, founder of the Bowman Foundation for Workplace Equity and Mental Wellness.

“While working from home, many have considered a ‘safe’ place free from office politics, microaggressions, toxic work cultures, and the pressure to conform to ‘corporate culture,’” Bowman told Healthline.

If heading back into the office is causing you stress, consider the following tips from health experts to help ease your return.


1 Accept your anxiety


Sources - https://www.healthline.com/health-news/8-easy-ways-to-reduce-back-to-office-stress-and-anxiety#Accept-your-anxiety