The Sambhavna Trust Clinic, the lifeblood of victims of the Bhopal Gas Tragedy, the world’s worst industrial tragedy, is today in dire need of financial assistance. If steps are not taken soon, it may even have to close down.

Located 400 metres south of the Union Carbide plant, in the middle of communities worst-hit by the 1984 Bhopal Gas Tragedy, the Sambhavna Trust Clinic opened its doors in September 1996. It provides free of cost medical care and support to gas victims, survivors and their families. Atleast 36,000 people have been registered as receiving medical care at the clinic. These include children, who display symptoms of and suffer from various ailments related to gas leak poisoning and are born with congenital birth defects, several decades after the gas leak affected their parents’ reproductive systems.

Nearly 38 years after the Bhopal gas tragedy and over 25 years since it opened its doors, the Sambhavna Clinic’s registration under the Foreign Contribution (Regulation) Act (FCRA) has been cancelled, its bank accounts have been frozen and efforts made to re-register have been denied so far.

This makes it impossible for the Sambhavna Trust to access foreign funds that have already been raised and so, continuing to provide treatment to the 36,000 registered survivors and pay salaries to doctors and staff has become impossible. The staff, half of whom are survivors of the disaster themselves, have taken deep voluntary cuts to their salaries to continue to serve at the clinic.

Speaking to the Pratirodh website in October 2021, Satinath Sarangi, Managing Trustee had said, “The cancellation of FCRA registration is a big blow for the Sambhavna Trust because right from the beginning we were depending on donations from abroad. Because of shortage of funds, we are unable to produce some of the medicines and pay salaries to our staff in time. We are now raising funds through crowdfunding but the amount raised is far from adequate.”

If you want to help stop Sambhavna Clinic from closing down, please visit Sambhavna Trust at Give India crowdfunding platform.