1. Pulses & Legumes
Pulses, beans, and legumes are the most healthy Indian food that you can find! They are not only loaded with nutrients but also packed with protein. Legumes and lentils are a great source of protein for vegans and vegetarians since they cannot eat animal protein. They are also filled with vitamins and help in the overall growth of the body. Pulses also help in digestion and are an excellent food option for people with diabetes. It takes significantly less effort to cook a delicious dal & poured over ghee on it

2. Vegetable Curry
Vegetable curries are known to be flavorful and satisfying. You can cook an extremely healthy Indian vegetable curry without compromising on the taste. Using healthy cooking tips and methods like using less oil and adding yogurt instead of heavy cream can make your vegetable curry enjoyable and nutritious. Vegetable curries are a tasty Indian food that people love to feast on with chapati or rice. It uses spices and aromatics that give a beautiful look and smell!

3. Steamed Rice
Rice is an everyday staple that you will find in every Indian household. It’s economical, healthy and keeps you full for a long time. Now, a lot of people believe that rice is not healthy Indian food, but if you eat steamed brown rice, then you can get rid of this problem. It is packed with fiber and has lower calories as compared to white rice. You can pair your brown rice with a vegetable curry or a dal and enjoy a wholesome meal.

4. Dhokla
Dhoklas are a famous Indian food dish, and it comes from the state of Gujarat. We cannot leave this dish out of best healthy Indian food items! A lot of people have dhoklas that are steamed because they are low calorie and high in fiber. 

5. Chapati/Roti
Typically Indians use wheat flour to make rotis, but nowadays, many healthy flour options are available. You can choose from multigrain atta, bajra, jowar and ragi atta that is more healthy and has less carb. Chapatis are very nutritious and made without the use of any oil.