Kalaripayattu is Derived from the Sanskrit word Khalurika, meaning “battlefield”, “threshing floor” or “military training ground”, kalaripayattu is one of the most ancient forms of martial arts still practiced in the world. The earliest documented evidence of kalaripayattu are in the form of palm leaf manuscripts with drawings of fighters, found in Kerala c. 200 BCE, but it is possible it is several hundred years older than that. The Dhanurveda, an ancient Indian text on Military Science, tells us that Kalaripayattu is one of the 64 art forms existing in Indian . The Dhanurveda is one of the Vedas, the ancient Indian ethical and moral teachings.
Kalaripayattu reach its zenith during the hundred years of war between the Cholas, Pandyas and Cheras. 
It was customary in Kerala to have all children above the age of seven to obtain training in kalaripayattu. British objected to the tradition of training with and carryin arms.  Laws were passed to prevent the people from practicing and training in kalaripayattu. These laws were put in place by the British to quell the chances of any form of mutiny.
Bodhidharma is credited with spread of martial arts to East Asia. He was well versed in Kalaripayattu and After his teacher’s passing, he went to China to spread the teachings of the Buddha in China, as this was his master’s last wish. Upon arriving in the area of Shao, he encounterd monks living there. He began to teach them his style of dhyana meditation only to discover the monks did not possess the stamina of body to continue. He then showed them the breathing techniques and Kalaripayattu’s body conditioning and fighting exercises to help the monks increase the levels of Prana in their bodies. Prana is the “vital energy” present in all life. Also called Chi, Qi, or Ki. So the combination of Kalaripayattu practices and meditation techniques brought to China from India. Bodhidharma has been given the title of “father of martial arts”. From these practices, the monks of Shao created the Shaolin temple and the martial arts known as Kung Fu.