Congress leader and former union minister of state for external affairs Shashi Tharoor landed himself in yet another controversy on Friday when he retweeted an "anti-India tweet" by someone described as a "Pakistani agent".

It started with Tharoor retweeting a tweet which claimed that a group of "powerful" Kuwaiti parliamentarians have demanded from their government to put an immediate ban on the entry of any member of the ruling BJP into Kuwait.

"We can't sit back and watch Muslim girls being publicly persecuted they said. Time for the Ummah to unite," they said. 

Referring to it, Tharoor tweeted, "Domestic actions have international repercussions. I hear from friends across the Gulf of their dismay at rising Islamophobia in India & the PM's unwillingness to condemn it, let alone act decisively against it. 'We like India. But don't make it so hard for us to be your friends'."

This prompted an angry reaction from the Indian Embassy in Kuwait which criticised Tharoor and asserted that such anti-India elements should not be encouraged.

"Sad to see an Hon'ble Member of Indian Parliament retweeting an anti-India tweet by a Pakistani agent who was recipient of a Pakistani Award 'Ambassador of Peace' for his anti-India activities. We should not encourage such anti-India elements," the Indian Embassy in Kuwait said. 

For its part, the Ministry of External Affairs reiterated its stand on criticism by some countries over the simmering dress code row in Karnataka, saying comments by outsiders on internal issues will not be acceptable.

So, is it fine to endorse anything against your country. 

Perhaps not. Any country will not tolerate any interference in its internal matters.  No country will do that - be it the United States or the United Kingdom or even those that harp on the extreme levels of democracy and freedom of speech in their respective regions. 

And then no member of Parliament from any country will justify or endorse the statements against his or her country. In fact, they might criticise their own government for any action or decisions and policies but slam other people for any sort of interference. 

Nation comes first everything else later.