#4 Inter 3–2 AC Milan (December 11 2005)
This match produced one of the high-intensity performances from both clubs. This match involved everything we hoped for, and at the end the Nerazzurri took the three points home.
Adriano opened the scoring for Inter from the spot-kick; likewise, Andriy Shevchenko converted the spot-kick to level the lead.
Inter led the scoreline with Obafemi Martins's close-range finish, but once again, AC Milan were able to get back into the game after Jaap Stam's powerful header. With full-time nearing, Adriano scored a brace to give Inter all three points.
#3 AC Milan 2–1 Inter (October 28 1984)
AC Milan went through adversity in 1984 as they were involved in a scandal and were demoted to Serie B. However, they overcame instability and were promoted to Serie A, but once more found themselves relegated in 1981-82.
To make up for things, they came across Inter, which could lift fans' moods and give players confidence. 
Inter looked an intimidating side and, in the match, deservingly took the lead through Alessandro Altobelli, but Milan upped their ante, and Agostino Di Bartolomei equalised for them.
As the game reached stoppage time, Milan's Hateley nodded the corner past Walter Zenga to send the entire stadium into Euphoria.
#2 AC Milan 0–1 Inter (December 11 1988)
The 1988 season saw both clubs dominate Europe. Inter were crowned Serie A while Milan won the Champions League. 
And at that time, both were managed by the two most reputed managers, Arrigo Sacchi and Giovanni Trapattoni. But in the end, the latter grind out a 0-1 win over Milan in the match.
#1 AC Milan 0–4 Inter (August 29 2009)
The 2009 year was Nerazzurri when Jose Mourinho led them. And they kicked off their treble-winning campaign in a splendid fashion, defeating arch-rivals AC Milan 0-4.
The match proved to be a turning point for Mourinho, as his side completely outclassed AC Milan. Thiago Motta, Diego Milito, Maicon and Dejan Stankovic were all on the scoresheet in their 4-0 rout of AC Milan.