After Jamal Garwal was appointed Afghanistan’s Charge d’Affaires in Moscow, the Afghanistan Embassy in Russia was completely handed over to the Taliban government on Saturday 

New Delhi: In the midst of constricting sanctions and increasing isolation by the West for its invasion of Ukraine, Russia on Saturday completed the official handover of the Afghanistan embassy in Moscow to the Taliban. Jamal Garwal who was accredited in late March 2022 as Charge d’Affaires in Afghanistan Embassy in Moscow took charge and the Islamist group’s flag was hoisted inside the mission premises.

Today, the Afghan Embassy in Moscow was handed over to an IEA-appointed diplomat. The MoFA (Ministry of Foreign Affairs) of IEA (Islamic Emirates Arabic) expresses gratitude to the government of the Russian Federation for accrediting the Afghan diplomat and facilitating the role of the Afghan Embassy in ensuring bilateral relations and providing timely services to its citizens in Russia”, said Abdul Qahar Balkhi, spokesperson, Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Afghanistan.

Balkhi also said, “As the legitimate government of Afghanistan, the IEA is entitled to managing Afghan political missions abroad and engaging responsibly with the world.”

Moscow’s move is a result of a series of talks with the Taliban since last year when it took over Kabul in August. But the talks started gaining momentum January onwards.

“We do not rule out that Kabul may send several junior and middle-level diplomats to reinforce the staff of the Afghan embassy in Moscow. Some of its diplomats, as we have heard, have already quit their jobs and even left Russia,” Kabulov said.

Subsequently, Garwal was sent to Moscow in February, and in March during the talks on Afghanistan that were hosted by China in Tunxi, Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov said, the international community must engage with the Taliban government in Kabul.

“We are convinced that the international community should actively cooperate with Afghanistan’s new government, encouraging steps aimed at its official recognition by the UN and all its participants,” Lavrov said in that meeting which was attended by Taliban’s acting foreign minister Amir Khan Muttaqi.