Just three weeks after Russia invaded Ukraine, the war has started affecting many countries far away from the zone of conflict.

The UN Secretary-General Antonio Guterres warned about an impending “hurricane of hunger” and a possible “meltdown of the global food system”, still struggling from the impact of Covid-19 pandemic. Echoing his concerns, David Beasley, the head of World Food Programme, apprehends a dramatic impact on supply chains and food prices that could “take the global hunger crisis to catastrophic levels”.  The Food and Agriculture Organisation (FAO) also sounded alarm as war threatened the supply of wheat, cooking oil and fertilizers across the world.  

Ukraine, along with wide swathes of fertile land in southwestern Russia, is “Europe’s breadbasket”, producing 15 percent of the world's wheat and around 30 percent of its exports. These two countries also produce 80 per cent of sunflower oil, a large amount of corn and barley.  Apart from these, Russia and Belarus are one of the largest producers of potash fertilizers exported to several countries. 

The war has cut supplies to many countries, especially in northern Africa, such as Egypt, Ethiopia, Tunisia and Algeria that depend heavily on wheat exports from this region. Also, countries like Yemen, Syria, South Sudan, Mali and Central African Republic – afflicted with perennial conflict – are already facing severe food shortages.

Situation will get worse as a sanction-hit Russia is unable to move its produce. Devastated by Russian bombs, Ukraine is choked with its railroads and roadways are cut off. Besides, hundreds of thousands of acres in the conflict zone will not be able to harvest or sow fresh crops. Also, as Ukrainians are either dying or fleeing the war zone, there will be hardly anyone to work on the fields. Fertiliser production and transport is coming to a standstill in Russia that will affect agriculture elsewhere, such as Brazil, the largest producer of soybeans.

In a globalised world, the Ukraine war is going to push nearly a billion people in the world towards hunger and starvation. 

READ MORE: 

https://www.nytimes.com/2022/03/20/world/americas/ukraine-war-global-food-crisis.html

https://www.france24.com/en/europe/20220317-war-in-ukraine-sparks-concerns-over-worldwide-food-shortages

https://www.theguardian.com/world/2022/mar/14/ukraine-invasion-worldwide-food-crisis-warns-un