On February 9, Union Home Minister Amit Shah was campaigning door-to-door in Sankhali (Sanquelim) in Goa. The incumbent seeking re-election from Sankhali is none other than Chief Minister Pramod Sawant. Elsewhere on February 10, Prime Minister Narendra Modi visited Goa, 72 hours before polls to address a rally at Mapusa. Both Sankhali and Mapusa are the only two seats where Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has 100 percent home grown candidates. All of the remaining seats have turncoats from the Congress, the Maharashtrawadi Gomantak Party (MGP), and even independents.

The BJP is getting into the Goa assembly elections with a lot more baggage than just anti-incumbency. It’s not looking good for the national party that first stormed and then wormed into power over the last decade for two back-to-back terms.

From no seats in 1989, when it debuted in the Goa assembly polls, to a whopping 27 seats (out of a total of 40 seats) when elections were declared for assembly elections this time, the BJP’s journey in Goa has been unbelievable. Sample this. In 1989 it cornered a mere 0.39 percent of electoral votes, and 27 years later, the saffron party won 32.5 percent of votes, including from the Catholic minorities.

In 2017, the BJP sent seven Catholic MLAs against six Hindu MLAs to the Goa Assembly. The defection of 10 MLAs from the Congress to the BJP raised the tally to an impressive 15 Catholic MLAs of a total of 27 by the time the tenure of the current assembly came to an end. In these elections, more Catholics are being fielded across Goa by the BJP.

But the BJP’s bonhomie with the Catholics that began with the late Manohar Parrikar in 2012 (when the party started giving more weightage to the Catholics) didn’t last long. Three minority MLAs quit the BJP, including the formidable Minister for Ports & Waste Management and Calangute MLA, Michael Lobo.

Lobo, a Parrikar protégé from Parra, was responsible for creating the BJP’s strongest base in Goa in Bardez, and anchoring its victory in election after election, from panchayat to Parliament.

Read the full article on MoneyControl at https://www.moneycontrol.com/news/opinion/assembly-elections-bjp-is-fighting-multiple-battles-in-goa-8079671.html