Scout Report - Young U19 Players taking the World by Storm
Verdict
Fati should not be judged for his last season performance as he was marred by injury. This season he is already making waves by notching up 3 assists and 2 goals to his name. The Spanish youngster is touted to achieve big things and he will be an important part of the team in seasons to come. 
Gavi
There comes once a time when players possess the deep talent for unbalancing the opposition's defenses, creating chances for teammates by beating defenders at ease. Coupled with his cerebral capacity to read and understand the game, in both individuals and in a cerebral way. He is compared to Barca legend Andreas Iniesta. He is known as Pablo Martin or commonly known as ‘Gavi’.
Coming out from the famed La Masia academy, he is a player who is skillful and exceptional with the ball at his feet. He can perform basic and elegant techniques. He uses these techniques and beats defenders when his team is in danger from the opposition.
Looking at his season heatmap, we can see that most of his actions like passes, shots, and touches came from the attacking 3rd of the pitch. The red spot is where he made most of his actions. 
Passing 
The Spaniard is such a calculative player, that he assesses the situation before making risky passes. He completed 24.99 short passes per 90, which puts him in the 90 percentile. He attempted 26.54 passes, making him fall to the 88 percentile. 
He made 0.7 key passes, and 0.47 through balls per 90. Gavi evaluates the situation before sending penetrating passes to his teammates. He ranks 99 percentile in through balls(passes sent between defenders in open space) making for his teammates to have a goal-scoring opportunity. 
From the visualization, we can see where Gavi made his through balls and key passes. His through balls have come mostly inside the 6-yard box. 
Gavi has been so good. Despite his age, which is only 18 years old, he made 5 assists. He made assists every 0.19 per 90, putting him in 92 percentile.