A Strategy to Deter Terrorism continues.... 

He argues: “Because terrorists bombs do not arrive uninvited. They are in fact invited and sheltered and facilitated.” The biggest facilitation, he forcefully argues, comes from the state apparatus through the creation of an atmosphere where blasts become a routine affair. So much so that people stop counting or reacting to them. The blasts, the condemnations, the expression of deep sorrows and the firm resolves—“not to be cowed down by such dastardly acts” become so standardized like the cyclostyled copies of the municipal payment receipts we used to see in childhood days, that nobody read.” Never eliminating the cause of the hurt, never finding the permanent solutions. Just a first-aid and the matter ends like an ill-equipped public hospital treating a wounded pedestrian. Recently, several thousand Bangladeshi Muslim infiltrators were caught by the Arunachal Pradesh government and thrown out of the state immediately, the All-Assam Minorities Students Union, Assam, issued a warning that unless they are “accommodated,” they will push out all Assamese (read Hindus) from three Muslim-dominated districts of Assam—Dhubri, Goalpara and Barpeta. In no time Assam’s Chief Minister issued a statement that all of these Muslims, ousted by the Arunachal Government, belong to Barpeta and so shall be accommodated there. There was no enquiry that on what basis the Arunachal Government has declared these people as Bangladeshis and unless the matter is settled between two Indian provinces, nothing decisive should be spoken for those declared aliens. The Central government maintained a studied silence.

In Assam, the prevailing perception is that any Bangladeshi can claim or her citizenship to Barpeta, because it’s a city run and controlled by Bangladeshi illegal infiltrators.

Assam is the only place on this earth where a native government enacted a foreigners’ registration act which puts the onus of proving a person’s nationality on the police or the complainant rather than on the suspect! It was known as the illegal Migrants (Determination by Tribunals) Act (1983) applicable to one state only so that in effect Bangladeshi illegal infiltrators are facilitated to sneak in.

To be continued..... 

( This account is maintained by Har Anand Publication)