In a blockbuster end to the weekend, Manchester United and Manchester City clash against each other on Sunday evening. Although, the two teams are separated by 19 points, yet the Red Devils have shown that they are no pushovers when it comes to the Manchester Derby.

This fixture has particularly seen the away side dominating the proceedings, and taking home all the three points. In their last six visits to the Etihad Stadium, Manchester United have went onto win four of those fixtures. 

The first Manchester derby of the season was a rather dull affair, as the Citizens controlled the tempo of the game right from the onset. Pep Guardiola's men claimed a comfortable 2-0 victory at Old Trafford.

In this article, we will have a look at three key battles for the Manchester Derby on Sunday.

Ruben Dias/Aymeric Laporte vs Cristiano Ronaldo

Manchester City defence are known to play the offside trap, something which is ought to frustrate Cristiano Ronaldo. The first Derby saw the Portuguese striker being isolated for most parts of the game. With Aymeric Laporte and Ruben Dias expected to start in the heart of defence, it will take some high quality crosses to beat the two defenders. Moreover, the Red Devils often lack quality in the final third of the field.

Paul Pogba/Bruno Fernandes vs Rodri

The visitors are expected to start Paul Pogba in a holding midfield role, alongside Scott McTominay. Rodri starts in the heart of City's midfield and never shies away from making those visionary passes. The Spaniard is excellent at cutting passing lanes, and making crucial interceptions. If the Red Devils are to claim anything from the fixture, the link up play between Bruno and Pogba has to be up to the mark.

Kyle Walker vs Jadon Sancho

One of the most improved players for Man United since the past couple of months has been Jadon Sancho. Now, he will be up against an experienced Kyle Walker on Sunday. Sancho will have to be at his best and orchestrate a few good moves from out wide. Moreover, he will also have to track the Walker's forward runs.