All of us throughout the pandemic have been touch with various online farming vendors for daily supplies, and quite properly everybody has encountered or heard the word hydroponics. Quite basically we can assume that it is some sort of new technology but what exactly is it?  A new method of farming or substituted cheaper way or just another change in the seedling of various veggies for vendor to make more profit.

This technology is not new, in fact, a variation of it was used in ancient times to create the hanging gardens of Babylon. But a modern understanding of the science behind hydroponics is now allowing us to make use of it to grow more food, with fewer resources. The basic concept of a hydroponic farm is that water is substituted for soil. Solutions are then added to the water to provide easily accessed nutrients for a healthy yield. The nutrients added to the water may include phosphorus, nitrogen, calcium, potassium, and many more, depending on the plants being grown. 


 Farmers can control pH and nutrients to ensure that plants receive the nutrition they require. The systems are closed, and the water that is not used by the plants is recycled. Farmers can regulate temperatures and lighting schedules to boost plant yield by growing inside. Hydroponics also enables us to establish farms in areas where soil conditions are insufficient to sustain farming or when land is restricted and a farm would otherwise be impossible to establish.
When Compared To Traditional Soil-Grown Crop Production, Hydroponics Has the Following Advantages:
Up to 90% more efficient use of water.
Production increases 3 to 10 times in the same amount of space.
Many crops can be produced twice as fast in a well managed hydroponic system.
Decreasing the time between harvest and consumption increases the nutritional value of the end product.
Indoor farming in a climate controlled environment means farms can exist in places where weather and soil conditions are not favorable for traditional food production.
No chemical weed or pest control products are needed when operating a hydroponic system.