Critical racial theory (CRT) has become one of the most political schools of thought in the United States, prompting controversy in both private and public realms as the battle on it intensifies across the country. While CRT disputes aren't new, they've gotten a lot more attention in the wake of George Floyd's death and the Black Lives Matter movement. 

Critics of CRT claim that it is a divisive anti-American ideology that demonises white people and brainwashes children.

While CRT goes beyond individual or interpersonal acts of racism, most of the discussion around it centres on how it examines race, racism, dominant ideas, and white people. 

So why does it make white people so uncomfortable? What is the root cause behind this? Critic Patrina Duhaney may have an answer for us.

She believes that eurocentric ideologies construct white supremacy as a universal mirror of humanity, making white people the dominant race. As a result, everything that deviates from the prevailing white standard elicits hostility and opposition. 

It is believed that some white individuals may be defensive or reluctant to these types of discussions because they elicit a wide range of emotions and reactions, including humiliation, embarrassment, anxiety, disbelief, fear, rage, perplexity, regret, and grief.

White people's power and privilege have sheltered them from having to confront the notion that they are contributing to the situation. Some people believe in the idea of reverse racism in response to perceived injustices, while others resort to retribution or violence. 

To conceive and describe how white people impose, preserve, and recreate whiteness, racist ideology, and white supremacy, scholars utilise terminology like white fragility, white wrath, and white lash.

Racism is a very deep rooted problem in our country. It is ingrained to such extent in minds of white people that they don’t realise that they are being racist. This hatred towards CRT is a reflection of the inherent racism which needs to be dismantled. And this change will begin through education, or rather, right kind of education which is the need of the hour.