anyoe deterred from seeing “Rocky” because of a lack of interest in boxing. It isn’t the first encouraging movie to feature an underdog that is entirely likeable and sorely outmatched, but it is one of the absolute finest – and possibly the definitive exemplar of the inspirational drama subgenre. It’s lasting power and greatness aren’t in the technically impressive fight choreography or even the nuanced, subtle acting, but in the creation of timeless characters that provide an unquestionable hero, an uncommon heroine, and quirky supporting players.

In 1975 in Philadelphia, slovenly southpaw Rocky Balboa (Sylvester Stallone) alternates competing in small boxing matches with leg-breaking, money-collecting errands for his loan shark boss Gazzo. When heavyweight champion of the world Apollo Creed (Carl Weathers) fixes to exploit America’s “land of opportunity” attitude by staging a fight with a local talent, Rocky is selected for the chance of a lifetime. While Creed plans for the big New Year’s Day show with splashy costumes and gimmicky theatrics, the “Italian Stallion” prepares for an honest fight. For Rocky, it isn’t about victory, but simply to remain standing during the grueling 15-round match.

His father convinced Rocky that he’d better learn to use his body, since his brains wouldn’t get him far. Neighboring pet shop employee Adrian (Talia Shire) was given the opposite advice: she didn’t have much of a body, so she’d better use her brains. Rocky has little experience with women, but is determined to court Adrian, who is painfully shy and lives rather sheltered in her brother Paulie’s (Burt Young) house. The two make a perfect, contrasting onscreen couple; a frequently comedic and awkwardly heartwarming romance, akin to the wholesome relationship in1955’s “Marty.” Paulie is also Rocky’s best friend, a meat factory worker who dually supports the newfound chance at success and regrets his inability to advance his own meager existence.

Rocky started fighting to prove he wasn’t a bum; is eventual trainer Mickey (Burgess Meredith, who practically created the template for the irritable, insulting, angry, old, yet wise mentor) sees the potential but scorns him repeatedly for never having put his skills to use.