Donald Trump can't help himself. Over and over again this week -- as Russia massed forces along Ukraine's borders and then invaded on Wednesday night -- the former US President found time to praise Russian President Vladimir Putin.

On Tuesday, in an interview with conservative radio hosts Clay Travis and Buck Sexton, Trump repeatedly praised Putin for his strategy on Ukraine.

"I went in yesterday and there was a television screen, and I said, 'This is genius.' Putin declares a big portion of the Ukraine — of Ukraine. Putin declares it as independent," Trump said. "Oh, that's wonderful."

Later in that same interview, Trump said this: "Putin is now saying, 'It's independent,' a large section of Ukraine. I said, 'How smart is that?' And he's gonna go in and be a peacekeeper."

Then on Wednesday night, Trump sounded a very similar note while speaking during a fundraiser at Mar-a-Lago.

"They say, 'Trump said Putin's smart.' I mean, he's taking over a country for two dollars' worth of sanctions. I'd say that's pretty smart. He's taking over a country — really a vast, vast location, a great piece of land with a lot of people, and just walking right in," Trump told the crowd, according to a recording of the event.

Politically, this seems insane. Praising a Russian invasion -- with absolutely zero provocation -- is not the sort of thing that American politicians do. Ever since the Cold War, America has viewed Russia very skeptically, understanding that the country had expansionist tendencies that could imbalance the delicate peace that has been in place since World War II.

So, why is Trump praising Putin? For Trump, everything -- and I mean everything -- is transactional. There is no right or wrong. There's only, can you do this thing or not, and what does it get you versus what does it cost you. In Trump's worldview, might makes right. If you can take something, you should. Being perceived as strong -- in your own country and in the world -- is all that matters.

We saw that sentiment play out many times during Trump's presidency.

https://edition.cnn.com/2022/02/24/politics/donald-trump-praises-putin/index.html?utm_medium=social&utm_source=twCNNi&utm_content=2022-02-24T17%3A00%3A16&utm_term=link