By Kinjal

Amid the ongoing Uttar Pradesh elections, a clip from an interview of Akhilesh Yadav with NDTV’s Srinivasan Jain is being circulated widely on social media. In the clip, Jain can be heard asking the SP chief, “We are also hearing that you will be going to London on the 11th? And you have booked your tickets.” In his reply, Yadav purportedly states, “To that, I will say who is not going abroad…If you have done your homework, then I would like to know why can’t I go? What can I do if you don’t have kids or your kids aren’t going?”

The 19-second clip is being shared with the claim that Akhilesh Yadav is planning to leave for London on March 11 foreseeing his party’s loss in the UP elections. The results for the Uttar Pradesh assembly polls will be announced on March 10. Facebook user ‘Sri Ram Bhakt Jitendra’ also shared the video with this claim. 

One Ashwani Tripathi, along with several other Facebook users, promoted the clip and accompanying claim.

The video also made its way to Twitter.

Doctored video clip
After watching the viral footage, Alt News suspected that it was doctored. We noticed sudden jump cuts in the audio at the 0:06 and 0:11 mark, which suggested that parts of the video were edited out.

We performed a keyword search on Twitter, which led us to a tweet posted by NDTV India on June 23, 2021 that carried a clip from the interview with Akhilesh Yadav. After watching this 59-second clip, it was clear that the viral video has been edited.

( Link https://twitter.com/ndtvindia/status/1407591666152738816?t=m61nOpNtAEPB0FS7QYPCWw&s=19)

The interview exchange between the Yadav and Jain is as follows:

Sreenivasan Jain – “We are also hearing that you went to London in between, is this true?”

Akhilesh Yadav – “The real question is, do I have to now tell you who went to London and who didn’t go abroad? You tell me, did I go to London?”

Sreenivasan Jain – “No, I’m asking you this.”

Read the full story here:- https://www.altnews.in/false-claim-of-akhilesh-yadav-to-go-to-london-on-11-march-old-intervie