The scientist who discovered the covid vaccine have asked the world to be prepared for rolling out on a next jab for the next pandemic virus, which could be known as Disease X within just 100 days. 

Professor Dame Sarah Gilbert said to the Sky News in an interview that it almost took around 300 days from Covid 19  identification in China to the approval of the first vaccine from the medical authorities. 

In order to avoid a disastrous impact in the future pandemic it is necessary that the response needs to be more faster by being better prepared for it. 

"We are not talking about doing the same thing again and just doing it quicker," she said. 

"What we are talking about now is being much better prepared, so we don't have to start from the same place next time." 

Professor Gilbert will join the director general of the World Health Organisation, the medical adviser to the US President Prof Anthony Fauci, pharmaceutical bosses and government representatives at the Global Pandemic Preparedness Summit in London. 

The 100-day target was originally put forward by the UK government during its G7 presidency in June 2021, and backed by leaders of the G7 and G20. 

Such a rapid response to COVID would have saved millions of lives and trillions of dollars around the world. 

Scientists need to build library of vaccines 

She said scientists need to build a library of vaccines against the families of viruses that are the biggest pandemic threats. That would mean at least 10 broadly-effective vaccines to start with. 

"We would want to make the seed stocks (the reference sample of the virus) for a number of different vaccines," she said. 

"Then we would start doing clinical testing so we can look at the immune response for each of the different types of viruses to see if it is likely to be protective. 

"We want to go as far as we can and then have a small stockpile of vaccine ready to use and the ability to ramp up manufacturing really quickly if there is then an outbreak." 


Sources - https://www.google.com/amp/s/news.sky.com/story/amp/world-must-roll-out-jab-for-next-pandemic-virus-in-just-100-days-scientist-behind-oxford-covid-vaccine-says-12560169