Kun-Der Lin I-Mei Lin 

Abstract 

Aim 

Patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus exhibited autonomic nervous system (ANS) dysfunction and comorbidities with depressive or anxiety symptoms were related to poor glycemic control. Heart rate variability (HRV) converted from electrocardiogram (ECG) has been used as the ANS index. The study aimed to explore the associations between depression, anxiety, HRV, and glycemic control in patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus. 

Methods 

The Patient Health Questionnaire-9 (PHQ-9) and Generalized Anxiety Disorder-7 (GAD-7) questionnaires were used to assess depressive and anxiety symptoms in 647 patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus (mean age was 63 ± 10 years, 56 % males). The ECG raw signals were collected from a 5-min sitting and resting baseline and then transformed to HRV indices referring ANS activation. Blood glucose and lipid profiles including glycated hemoglobin (HbA1c), high-density lipoprotein (HDL), low-density lipoprotein (LDL), and triglyceride were obtained from the electronic medical records. 

Results 

Ninety-nine (15 %) participants had depressive symptoms and 59 (9 %) had anxiety symptoms. Depression and HbA1c were negatively correlated with parasympathetic activation. Depression and anxiety were positively correlated with sympathetic activation. After controlling for demographic data and lipid profiles, depression was a significant positive predictor for HbA1c levels; and HRV indices (lnLF and lnHF) were the significant negative predictors for HbA1c levels. Mediation effect analysis showed that depression was a mediator between parasympathetic activation and glycemic control. 

Conclusions 

Lower parasympathetic activation and higher depressive symptoms may affect glycemic control in patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus. Intervention programs targeting to increase parasympathetic activities and reducing depression could be further tested for their effects on glycemic outcomes for potential clinical use. 

Sources - https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/abs/pii/S1056872722001738