Darwin Nunez

The highly sought-after Benfica striker has been a revelation this season. Owing to this, Darwin Nunez is being sought after by multiple Premier League clubs including Manchester United. 

Darwin Nunez has scored 25 goals in 26 Liga Portugal appearances this season. To add to this, the Uruguayan has been brilliant in the Champions League as well, scoring 6 goals in 10 appearances. 

Edinson Cavani, Anthony Martial, Marcus Rashford, and even Cristiano Ronaldo are rumoured to be leaving in the summer. Hence, Darwin Nunez would be a welcome addition to Erik Ten Hag's team next season. 



Pau Torres

Manchester United have been horrible in defence this season. The signing of Raphael Varane has not been as impactful as expected. To add to this, Harry Maguire has been severely out of form. 

Owing to this, Erik Ten Hag wants to sign a center-back in the summer and has shortlisted Pau Torres for the same. The Villarreal player has risen through the ranks over the years. Torres has since become the first-choice center-back for Spain as well. 

Multiple clubs are reportedly interested in Pau Torres including Manchester United. With Eric Bailly and Phil Jones set to be leaving, the Red Devils want to add defensive depth. Hence, the Spanish center-back would be a welcome addition to the club. 



Jurrien Timber

Another defender that Manchester United are reportedly targeting is Jurrien Timber. The Ajax player has stood out in the team under Erik Ten Hag. Hence it is possible that he could move along with his manager to England in the summer. 

Jurrien Timber has been a fixture in the Ajax team this season. The 20-year-old defender has played 27 Eredivisie games in which he has scored 3 crucial goals for his club as well. 

The Dutchman can play both as a center-back and a right-back for his team. Erik Ten Hag is unimpressed with Aaron Wan-Bissaka and wants him out of the club. Hence, Jurrien Timber would be a welcome addition if he decides to move to Manchester United in the transfer window.