Imagine you live alone and walk into a local food market in Lagos, the Nigerian commercial capital, to buy a week’s worth of basic food items. In less than 15 minutes, you would find that you’ve spent at least 10,000 Naira (or US$24 at the official exchange rate of US$1 = 416 Naira).

This may seem minuscule to privileged households but such expenditure is a heavy burden on Nigeria’s 62 million workers.

The majority of Nigerian workers have to make do with a monthly minimum wage of 30,000 Naira (US$72). Only 17 percent of Nigerian workers hold jobs that pay enough to get them out of poverty.

After factoring in rent, transportation, medical expenses and electricity, among others, the average Nigerian worker can’t make ends meet. This has been made worse by the rising cost of living. For most Nigerians, the cost of living is about 5.3 times more than the average salary.

Soaring food prices are the major cause. Nigeria’s inflation rate was 15.9 percent in March, 2022, and food prices rose by 17.2 percent, among the highest in Africa.

Much of Nigeria’s inflation is due to increases in the prices of basic food items like bread, cereals, potatoes, yam, fish, meat, oils and fats. Food prices contributed about 60 percent to Nigeria’s inflation in 2021.

Those prices have been increasing for several reasons, including insecurity in the country’s food-producing areas, poor transportation and storage facilities, removal of some food items from the list of imports eligible for foreign exchange through the Central Bank of Nigeria’s official windows, depreciation of the Naira, which led to increases in the prices of imported food, and border closures in 2019 that resulted in steep declines in food imports.

The war in Ukraine has added further upward pressure on commodity and fuel prices. This will cause overall inflation and food prices to continue to increase well into 2023, a pointer that Nigerian workers are in for a very rough ride during the next several months.

Read more - https://theconversation.com/a-gloomy-may-day-awaits-nigerian-workers-181545