Stargirl. by Jerry Spinelli
 Stargirl is a former homeschooler who begins public school for the first time. In a word, she’s weird. But she’s herself. Leo finds he’s both enamoured and embarrassed by her. He wants Stargirl to act like other people, what he considers “normal.”

Ugly. by Robert Hoge
Author Robert Hoge was born with deformed legs and a giant tumour between his eyes. Numerous surgeries left him with a face that even his mother struggled to love. With honesty and grace, Robert recounts the struggles of growing up “ugly” and his determination to rise above life’s challenges.

What the Moon Saw. by Laura Resau
Clara is forced to spend the summer with her Mexican grandparents in Mexico, grandparents she doesn’t know. She feels baffled and conflicted about her heritage, but by spending time in Mexico, Clara comes to understand who she is and grows into herself.

See You in the Cosmos. by Jack Cheng
A beautiful story about the importance of unconditional love and forgiveness in a complicated world.

The Book Thief. by Markus Zusak
t’s wartime in Nazi Germany, when children like Liesel were living with foster families, Jews were in hiding, and books were burned. Liesel steals books, books she wants to learn to read. Despite the horrors of her brother’s death and the ongoing war, the readers, her foster dad, the Jewish man named Max hidden in the basement, and her friend, Rudy, bring a sense of beauty and hope to Liesel’s life … and to ours for having experienced it with Liesel.

White Bird: A Wonder Story. by R. J. Palacio
One of the lovely things about Wonder (of which there are many!) is all the wonderful characters that populate Auggie’s world. One such character is Julian’s grandmother, Grandmère, and in R. J. Palacio’s latest, Grandmère’s powerful backstory unfolds in an immersive graphic novel. 

Fish in a Tree. by Lynda Mulally Hunt
Sixth-grader Ally has a secret: she’s pretty sure she’ll never be able to read or write, at least not like the other kids.