These exotic drinks never fail to bring us absolute joy, from the subtle flavors of Kashmir to the sweet and spicy flavor bombs of Maharashtra.
Around March, the first signs of the summer season appear in several places of India. In the midst of the hot and humid weather, the only thing that provides relief is a cool sherbet made from curd, lemon, or any seasonal berries and fruits.

Although sherbet (sherbat/sharbat), generally referred to as the world's first soft drink, is based on the Persian sharbat — a sugary mixture laced with flowers and fruits - its influence in India began to emerge during the Mughal era. According to legend, Mughal ruler Babur would send servants to the Himalayan heights to acquire new ice for him to manufacture sharbat. Pythagoras, the ancient Greek philosopher and mathematician, is also credited with the development of sharbat in some manuscripts. Whatever their origins, sharbat, squashes, and other locally produced beverages have satisfied our thirst and senses for millennia.
So it's no surprise that India has a long list of drinks or coolers that transcend the seasons and delight us with flavor, reminiscence, and pure joy. Here are a few lesser-known cocktails to sample:

Babri Beol 
Babri Beol is a beverage created from simple ingredients such as milk, water, basil seeds, and coconut that is known for its delicate and pleasant flavor. Kan Sherbat Sol Kadi 
This blush-colored drink is created with coconut milk and kokum syrup, with a startling blast of chiles and spices like cumin and mustard seeds, and originated on the Konkan coast, which is noted for its bountiful supply of kokum or amsul.
Gondhoraj Ghol
Curd, black salt, sugar, cooled water, and the aromatic brilliance of Gondhoraj juice taken from an oblong-shaped dark green coloured lemon make up Gondhoraj Ghol.
Nongu Sherbat
Made from the ice apple of the palmyra tree, this is an instant thirst-quencher that is popular in many parts of the country but is known by different names like Targola.