A silent protagonist is a unique feature of video games. Often you have a protagonist with a concrete backstory, and unlike customizable characters he or she already has a face, but they never speak and yet they manage to convey all the emotions of the character just as well as any spoken protagonist. That is because sometimes, actions really do speak louder than words.

What separates a silent protagonist from a character in a book is that YOU are yourself experiencing the medium, rather than observing it. You are not just the person behind the controls, YOU are the character itself. As soon as your character gains a distinct personality and traits, you run the risk of potentially losing immersion value in the game. If your character's traits and personality are determined primarily by your actions in the video game, the protagonist gains characterization without sacrificing immersion.

Yet this is a two sided coin as sometimes words and a concrete personality for your character can really be necessary, otherwise your perception of your silent protagonist can be that of little more than some generic piece of code inside a computer with zero personality. Indeed long periods of silence can soon make the game awkward and senseless. For example the case with Isaac in Dead Space. While his silent protagonist phase in Dead Space worked perfectly, his phase as a speaking one in Dead Space 2 and 3 were by far better and added a lot more to him. Same with Corvo Attano from Dishonored, where he transcends from a silent to a spoken protagonist in Dishonored 2 adding a good deal more to him.

However there are certain characters that are best suited to the silent role, such as The Knight from Hollow Knight who contributes very well to the overall unfamiliar, somber, and dark atmosphere of a game with such a mysterious environment. Then there is Doom Guy, who rather than being some foul mouthed trash talker merely stares silently at the demons from Hell as he murders them in the most violent ways, making you feel like an all out badass.