Cristiano Ronaldo’s attempt to force Manchester United into selling him to a Champions League club in this transfer window continues and he has now missed their pre-season training for the third consecutive day. The Portugese talisman is yet to join the Premier League side in their pre-season training and he has still not met with their new manager Erik Ten Haag.

The official reason for Cristiano’s absence from training mentions ‘family reasons’ but it is the 
common notion of all football pundits that it is definitely Cristiano’s way of forcing his way out of the Old Trafford. We have preciously seen him doing something very similar last year when he decided that he wanted to leave Juventus.

According to the latest development, as confirmed by Fabrizio Romano, Cristiano Ronaldo will not be accompanying his teammates for the first leg of Manchester United’s summer tour in Bangkok, Thailand. He has reportedly been granted some extra time off by the board to cope up with his personal issues.

“Cristiano Ronaldo will not be part of Manchester United squad for the start of pre-season tour.

He’s not gonna travel to Bangkok tomorrow.
Man United accept to give Cristiano additional time off to deal with personal/family issue,” Fabrizio Romano posted on Twitter.

Earlier this week, Ronaldo made his wish of leaving the club known to Manchester United’s 
board. He has asked them to accept the any decent bid and his agent Jorge Mendes has been travelling across Europe to look for suitors for his client ever since. Bayern Munich and Chelsea are said to be the two most likely teams to sign the Portuguese captain.

However, despite Cristiano’s attempts, Manchester United have made it very clear that they have no intentions to sell him in this transfer window.

Their failure in signing their top transfer target Darwin Nunez has made it impossible for United to get their hands on another elite poacher and thus they would do all it takes to keep Cristiano Ronaldo in their team, atleast for one more season. But the question is, does 37-year-old Cristiano Ronaldo have many more years to waste in the twilight of his career?