Former Indian captain and vice-captain Ajinkya Rahane has been facing a lot of heat following his inability to score big runs consistently for the last couple of years. In a recent interaction, Rahane opened up about how his contributions to India’s glorious Border-Gavaskar Trophy victory in 2021 always went unnoticed.

The middle-order batsman hasn’t hit a century since his famous hundred at the Melbourne Cricket Ground during the Border-Gavaskar Trophy in 2021 which kickstarted India's historic victory over Australia. Since then, Rahane has averaged only 20.25 to score 547 runs in 27 innings, with three half-centuries and a high score of 67. In this period, his average has dipped from over 43 to under 39.

When captain Virat Kohli flew out of Australia after the humiliating loss in the opener at Adelaide, Rahane took over the reins in the most difficult of circumstances.
What followed was one of the most incredible turnarounds seen in Test history as India rebounded to win the second match at the Melbourne Cricket Ground by eight wickets, with Rahane leading the fight-back with a magnificent hundred

Rahane was a central figure in India's epic turnaround during the 2020-21 tour of Australia but stand-in captain of that series Ajinkya Rahane says "someone else took the credit" for decisions he made to resurrect the team after the nightmarish 36 all out in the Adelaide Test. 

“I just smile when people say my career is finished, people who know the sport don’t talk like that – everyone knows what happened in Australia and even before it, my contribution in red-ball cricket, people who love the sport will talk sensibly. I know how I have performed and I don’t have to prove anything to anyone, and that’s not in my nature to go out there and take credit. However, there were a few decisions that I personally had to make on the field but the credit went to someone else. To me, it was important that we won the series and it was a historic series. For me, that was really special.” he said during a chat with Boria Mazumdar on his show ‘Backstage with Boria’.