Tata Consultancy  Services CEO  Ganapathy Subramaniam termed it an “ethical issue,” while Tech Mahindra managing director and chief executive CP Gurnani said the issue was “not rampant.” Gurnani also said his company will probably “make a policy” so employees can be open about pursuing more than one job at a time.
Moonlighting refers to pursuing more than one job at a time, usually in non-work hours. While this is not a new phenomenon, remote working followed in the Indian IT sector has helped employees take up this option in larger numbers. 
The sharply divided opinions came at an industry event in the National Capital on Friday, days after Wipro chairman Rishad Premji termed the practice as “cheating, plain and simple,” in a remark on Twitter. His tweet triggered a fierce debate at a time when the IT sector is dealing with unprecedented levels of attrition. 
“Most of us (IT companies) have efficiency and productivity targets that are measurable..,” said Gurnani. “If someone meets the efficiency and productivity norms, and wants to make an extra buck, as long as he is not committing a fraud and not doing something that is against the values and ethics of the company, I have no problem.”
“Frankly, I’m going to probably make it a policy. If you want to do it, sure. But be open about it and share with us,” Gurnani stated at the event organised by the fortnightly publication Business Today.
At the same event, TCS’ Subramaniam noted that “employers need to inculcate ethics and being right.” “If you make something like this for short-term gains, in the long-term, you will lose out — that kind of a message has to go to the employees,” said the TCS COO.
The extent of attrition within top companies has also varied in the previous quarter. While Wipro has managed to keep attrition rates lower than some peers, with the April-June level marginally down to 23.3%, from 23.8% in the sequential period, employee exits have risen for companies such as Infosys and TCS.
Meanwhile, Gurnani wrote in a Twitter post on Sunday, “My thoughts on the trending ‘M word’... It's necessary to keep changing with the times, and as always, I welcome disruption in the ways we work.”