Former union minister and senior lawyer Kapil Sibal has resigned from the Congress after over 30 years and filed his nomination for the June 10 Rajya Sabha elections as a Samajwadi Party (SP) candidate. 

A vocal member of G-23 (Group of 23 dissidents who sought structural changes in the grand old party), Sibal had been at odds with the Congress leadership for some time now.

Having started his political career as a Rajya Sabha member from Bihar as a Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) candidate, Sibal contested and won from Chandni Chowk in the 2004 Lok Sabha elections on a Congress ticket. 

He is the sixth leader to have quit the grand old party this year after RPN Singh, Ashwani Kumar, Shatrughan Sinha, Sunil Jakhar and Hardik Patel. He is the second law minister in the UPA-II government to have left the party. Ashwani Kumar is the other one. 

Among all the G-23 leaders, the Congress leadership had been upset with Sibal the most for he had launched a diatribe against Rahul Gandhi and his coterie after continuous electoral slide that set in with the 2014 Lok Sabha debacle. 

The Congress high command was unwilling to accommodate Sibal for his utterances. There were also demands from various quarters within the Congress for his expulsion from the party, arguing that he had breached all norms and repeatedly violated party discipline. 

His other G-23 colleagues such as Ghulam Nabi Azad, Anand Sharma, Bhupinder Singh Hooda and Shashi Tharoor have of late gone soft on the Gandhi family. Azad and Sharma are likely to be nominated to the Rajya Sabha. So is Mukul Wasnik, another dissident. 

The coming together of Sibal and the SP has come as a surprise to many as the former minister had kept up the attack on Mulayam Singh Yadav and his party for a long time from 2007 onwards. 

Sibal is not the first lawyer to have contested and become a Rajya Sabha member from different parties. 

Prior to him, Congress leader Abhishek Manu Singhvi was nominated to the Rajya Sabha by the Trinamool Congress from West Bengal. Similarly, RK Anand also contested from different parties.