Everything around us influences us. The smallest change can have a great impact on ourselves. When children spend time with their peers what we focus on is that they are playing some games, but the reality is their confidence is building up and having a better self esteem, it creates a curiosity in them, and developing coordination and stamina. 

Now research shows that when children play, their cognition, social and physical skills are getting enhanced. 

A research from University of Cambridge has found thG when kids play with their peers, they are building the base of having a better mental health in the future. 

Mary Alvord, PhD, psychologist and coauthor of Resilience Builder Program for Children and Adolescents., states that, “It is well-known that peer relationships and basic skills are fundamental to building relationships, which are fundamental to good mental health.” 

The results shows that children who play well with their peers at the age of 2 have a better mental health by the age of 7. 
Peer Play and Mental Health 

Play during the childhood is a very important stage as children develop a sense of accomplishment and confidence. Play can also help them to process their emotions and reduce the stress levels. And unstructured play can even improve concentration and helps kids to strengthen their self regulation. 

The play time is not the focus here, but rather what type of play is adopted by the child is what stands at significance as that shows how much the child's interaction among peers are and so. 

“The benefits of peer play—not having your child isolated, and not exclusive to just the family—help kids learn how to further develop communication language skills, cognitive skills, and problem solving,” notes Mayra Mendez, PhD, LMFT, psychotherapist and program coordinator for intellectual and developmental disabilities and mental health services at Providence Saint John's Child and Family Development Center. 

It is a fact that children have to exercise certain skills in order to have positive interactions with other kids of their age and this is what helps them attain the mental health benefits. 


Sources - Very Well Mind