By Shivaji Dasgupta
In exactly a day, India will encounter the favourite neighbor in a 20-over tussle at the Asia Cup. What's rather surprising is the low volume of public enthusiasm, as if calmly awaiting the next Bollywood flop.
Although, most living generations will confess that this was one matter that deeply united Indians, the imminent slaying of the perennial foe. It was at one level credible surrogacy, as the ambitions of the battlefield could be replicated, video game-like, in a gladiatorial environment. Quite naturally, the losses were scaringly scathing, most remarkably the last delivery sixer by Javed Miandad in 1986, decimating our composure for a largish spell of time.
This time, however, the box office seems rather lukewarm, and at the onset of the festive season, folks seems elsewhere engaged on Sunday evening. Which incidentally is surely a reasonable factor, as after the covid lull of play, citizens are stepping out with relieved abandon, static TV time is clearly a punitive option. Recent data points on the mall and dine-in traffic confirm that the latest threats of the ill-tempered virus are being ignored with boisterous bravado.
Also, in terms of sheer variety, there is far too much happening in India today, and I do mean the political dramas that are unfolding daily across theaters of governance. New age candidates like scams, raids, defections, and debates are arresting our imagination with galloping gusto and the OTT invasion is rapidly occupying emotional territories across the citizenry. Thus, there is a clear and present overload of 'entertainment' in urban living, from sources old and new.
Which is exactly where the IPL comes to play as the prime accused for the diminishing passion in Indo-Pak cricketing conflicts, for time to come. For starters, it has curated a deluge of world-class content with today's viewers seeing in a year more Cricket than we could imagine watching in a lifetime. And this is inarguably state-of-art stuff with India becoming the combination of the Italian and Spanish leagues in a Football context.
Read more
https://www.newsdrum.in/sports/asia-cup-has-the-ipl-killed-indo-pak-cricket-rivalry-81437.html
