Nearly five million Ukrainians have fled the country since the Russian invasion began on February 24. Of this unprecedented migration to Europe after World War II, a small proportion turned to France. The French Immigration and Integration Agency says 57,000 Ukrainians have benefited so far.

This figure shows the low interest of Ukrainians in seeking support in France. The situation for Afghan and Syrian refugees is similar. France is often the last resort out of necessity. Most Afghans turn to France for re-asylum as a final choice after their asylum application is rejected in other countries such as Germany, Austria or Sweden.

France is not a country with a significant Ukrainian population. In 2021, less than 19,000 Ukrainians had French residency permits.

Asylum seekers from Afghanistan registered nearly 600,000 asylum applications in the European Union between 2014 and 2020. Of this figure, 109 thousand applications were registered in Germany, while this figure is 88 thousand in France.

During the wave of mass migration in recent years, France registered 25,195 asylum applications from Syria, while Germany also registered 63,300 asylum applications from that country for processing.

Afghans are the first nation with the highest number of asylum seekers in France, with 10,000 asylum applications. But if Afghan applications in France remain high to this day, it is mostly because most of them have had their asylum applications rejected in other EU countries.

What did not seem to discourage Afghan refugees from France was a significant Afghan diaspora in the country; This makes it difficult for Afghans to create new departments to trade and interact with outsiders.
France largely ignored the Dublin Act, making it an "option to return" to Afghans.

France has a more lenient policy on leaving the country and deporting migrants than other European countries.

The French Interior Ministry recently announced that it would send Afghans whose refusal to accept asylum applications to a third country in accordance with Dublin law to which these migrants first entered.