At least six people have been stabbed or slashed on the New York City subway since the unveiling of a new transit safety plan on Friday, the New York City Police Department said.

Officials have vowed to combat crime and address homelessness in the city's transit system as part of a new public safety initiative.

The first stabbing of the weekend happened Friday evening inside a Queens subway station, where a man was stabbed by another man who fled the scene on foot, police said. The victim was taken to a local hospital with a cut to his arm and is expected to survive. The NYPD said it has a suspect related to the attack in custody.

Another happened early Saturday morning inside another subway station in Queens. A 46-year-old man was approached by three males who demanded money, the NYPD said. A dispute ensued, and the victim was stabbed in the thigh. He was taken to a local and is in stable condition.

On Saturday afternoon around 2:50 p.m., an unknown male punched a 20-year-old female victim in the back while she was on the northbound platform inside a subway station in the Brooklyn neighborhood of East New York. A verbal dispute ensued, and the assailant stabbed the victim three times in the abdomen. Emergency Medical Services arrived at the scene and transported the woman to a hospital in stable condition, according to police.

On Saturday evening around 8:10 p.m., two men attempted to remove property from a male victim. A struggle ensued, and the victim was stabbed in the leg. No property was removed, and the victim was treated on scene by EMS, the NYPD said.

Less than an hour later, a verbal dispute in the 116th street station in Harlem resulted in a male victim getting slashed in the arm. He was taken to Columbia Presbyterian Hospital in stable condition, police said.

And on Sunday, a 31-year-old man was stabbed in the back and arm by a man while on a train between the between Lafayette Street and Canal Street stations shotly after 6 p.m. The victim was transported to Bellevue Hospital in stable condition.