India and China have militarily disengaged from the 15-month-long faceoff in the Gogra region, one the several `friction’ points in eastern Ladakh, with the rival troops dismantling their temporary structures erected in the area before withdrawing to their 'permanent’ posts a few kilometers away.
Following the incursion by the People’s Liberation Army (PLA) two years earlier, Patrolling Point 15 (PP15) in Hot Springs and PP17A near Gogra Post were among the four friction points between India and China, the other two being PP14 in Galwan Valley and the north bank of Pangong Tso.
PP15 in Hot Springs and PP17A near Gogra post are two of the 65 patrolling points in the Union Territory of Ladakh along the LAC.
Besides disputes at these patrolling points, the violent clash at Galwan Valley in June 2020 led to the death of 20 Indian soldiers and at least 40 Chinese military personnel.
The regions, PP15 and PP17A, are located in an area where India and China largely agree on the LAC alignment. The disengagement in the Hotsprings-Gogra region will de-escalate the border tension with China as it officially ends the eye-to-eye confrontation at all new friction points created by the PLA in 2020.
In August last year, the Indian Army and China’s PLA had stopped forward deployments in Gogra (Patrolling Point 17 A) and returned to their permanent bases.
The development had come after the 12th round of talks between the Corps Commanders of India and China held at Chushul Moldo meeting point in eastern Ladakh in 2021.
Notably, the Depsang Plains on the LAC still remain a contentious issue between India and China, which predates the 2020 stand-off. The Chinese forces continue to block access to India’s traditional patrolling areas in Depsang Plains and Charding Nala regions. Depsang Plains falls under India’s Sub Sector North (SSN) and the LAC here is disputed like in other regions.
Thus, India has ended up conceding to creation of yet another ‘buffer zone’ in its own territory while agreeing with China for withdrawal of troops from Patrolling Point 15 on the Line of Actual Control, the representative of the local community to the Ladakh Autonomous Hill Development Council (LAHDC) alleged.