An array of mysterious symptoms -- an uncommon mix of ear pains, vertigo, nausea – suffered by hundreds of US diplomats and spies on overseas duty were most likely caused by directed electromagnetic energy delivered by an external device, a panel of technical and medical experts working for US intelligence agencies announced on Wednesday.  

Known as Havana Syndrome – since it was first reported in Cuba in 2016 – has raised countless debates over whether the symptoms were caused by some foreign adversary, or were just psychological cases. The panel’s findings conclude the symptoms were “genuine and compelling” and in some cases may have been caused by some hidden device.

Even though the panel does not say who might be responsible for this, it leaves open the possibility that at least some cases had been caused by deliberate attack of an enemy nation. Experts in the panel say, non-standard antennas—that can be concealed—can direct electromagnetic or ultrasound waves to cause damage to a targeted person. Such waves can travel through air and penetrate walls of buildings.

Some people in the US government firmly believe that Russia could be behind such attacks and they have raised the issue in meetings. But no conclusive evidence to support the hypothesis was found.  

However, the timing of the publication of the report – when the US-Russia confrontation over Ukraine is at its peak – is quite significant. The Biden administration had been under pressure from the US diplomatic and intelligence community to fully investigate the syndrome. Some of them even had accused the administration of downplaying the issue.  

Now that a report from the scientific panel has conceded the syndrome is real, some senior officials in US intelligence have vowed to continue with the investigation and find out the culprit, in order to seek justice for the victims of the attacks. 


READ MORE: https://www.nbcnews.com/politics/national-security/havana-syndrome-symptoms-small-group-likely-caused-directed-energy-say-rcna14584 

https://www.bbc.com/news/world-us-canada-60237839

https://www.aljazeera.com/news/2022/2/3/directed-energy-may-cause-havana-syndrome-us-intelligence