On 15 August, 2022, the police arrested 72 farmers who were protesting against a state government takeover of their land to launch a global tender to invite businesses to set up plants in Devanahalli on the northern edges of Karnataka’s capital—not for protesting the takeover but for protesting in the wrong place. 
These farmers, at the time of their arrest, had been on an indefinite strike for more than 120 days against the acquisition of 1,777 acres of fertile land by the Karnataka Industrial Area Development Board. They were arrested for protesting in Devanahalli town and not Freedom Park, over 35 km away in the heart of the city and now the only lawful protest site in Bengaluru. 
Since the state government passed the Licensing and Regulation of Protests, Demonstrations and Protest Marches (Bengaluru City) Order, 2021 in January 2022 it is illegal to protest anywhere else in the city. 
Once the site of the city’s central jail, Freedom Park is 16 acres, of which no more than 5 acres is set aside for protests. That’s less than the size of four football fields in a city of 12 million.
This order was enacted due a suo moto Karnataka High Court public interest litigation (PIL)—meaning a case started by the court itself— launched in March 2021 that sought “unobstructed vehicular traffic”. 
The 2022 order, as we show, contravenes constitutional rights, various Supreme Court judgements and international standards related to the right to peaceful assembly and right to protest. It criminalises protest, especially the facets that make it practical and effective and makes every protest in Bengaluru subject to prior police approval. 
The 2022 order introduces various conditions that make the organisation of protests formidable and empowers the police to dictate where, how and when to protest. Even a single protestor now requires a police permit.
Read more - https://article-14.com/post/public-protest-in-bengaluru-is-now-confined-if-the-police-allow-to-a-small-park-invisible-to-the-public-631012f91f281