The coronavirus pandemic had created a huge supply chain problem for the automobile industry, followed by a big shortage of semiconductor chips last year. Now the Ukraine conflict has again hit the industry, looking for some green sprouts of recovery.

Strict economic sanctions on Russia are forcing auto makers to halt their shipment of cars or their parts to the country, a big market for many luxury cars. BMW sold 49,000 cars in Russia last year, among those 12,000 were assembled near Kaliningrad, in a joint venture with the Russian automaker Avtotor. The luxury car maker announced suspension of production in key factories in Germany (Munich and Dingolfing), UK (Oxford) and Steyr (Austria). Their production was also affected due to lack of components supplied from western Ukraine.

Another big German automaker Volkswagen, Europe’s largest, announced it will halt production for a few days at two factories in the country at Dresden and Zwickau. American Ford Motor company is also suspending its operations, including its joint venture Sollers Ford in Russia. General Motors, Harley Davidson and Jaguar Landrover also stopped shipment to Russia.

Ukraine doesn’t make cars, but it supplies components to several auto makers across Europe. One of the key suppliers is Leoni which has factories in Stryi and Kolomyia, in western Ukraine. The company employs 100,000 people across its factories scattered around the world. Russia happens to be a key supplier of nickel, used in electric car batteries, and palladium, used in catalytic converters of gas and diesel powered vehicles.    

If the conflict and the shutdowns in the factories continue it can hugely impact the economy of Europe, already threatened by an energy crisis. The energy demand will further worsen due to its dependence on Russian oil and gas. Germany's industry is feeling the heat after the gas pipeline Nord Stream 2 was cancelled at a time when the country shut down three nuclear plants.   

READ MORE:

https://www.straitstimes.com/business/companies-markets/vw-bmw-to-idle-plants-on-parts-shortages-from-ukraine

https://www.nytimes.com/2022/03/01/business/volkswagen-bmw-autos-germany-ukraine.html

https://www.nbcnews.com/business/autos/ukraine-crisis-create-woes-auto-industry-rcna17384