The Central African Republic (CAR) descended into conflict in 2013 when Seleka rebels deposed then President François Bozizé.

Seleka rebels claimed to stand for the grievances that communities in the north-east of the country raised for years, namely a desire for development and inclusion in the national polity.

In the months following the coup, vigilante groups formed, some with links to the deposed president, Bozizé. They claimed they wanted to defend the “true central Africans”

During my field research trip in 2017, I conducted interviews with several anti-Balaka leaders and fighters in Bangui and Yaloké. I wanted to understand their motivations as well as their use of the “true Central African” narrative.
I found the phrase was commonly used across both rural and urban areas, and among elite and ordinary people. Anyone not deemed to fit this description was viewed as a “foreigner”, a word used to target Muslims and other ethnicities.

Maxime Mokom was one of the anti-Balaka leaders I was able to meet. In mid-March 2022, he was arrested in Chad and transferred to the International Criminal Court. He is facing charges of war crimes and crimes against humanity committed between 2013 and 2014.

I lived a few houses away from him in a neighbourhood where he was well known. He is a married man with children. We met a few times to discuss the anti-Balaka movement, his actions and his views on politics.

Mokom held an important position in the CAR. He is also popularly known as the nephew of former president Bozizé.

But who is he really? Answering that question, and reflecting on the context of the movement he came to coordinate, will shed light on the context of his trial in the months to come.

The political context

First, the political context.

After losing power in 2014, the Seleka splintered into several armed groups with various military capabilities.

The anti-Balaka concentrated around the leadership of Patrice Nagaïssona and Mokom and others such as Alfred Yekatom.

Read more - https://theconversation.com/maxime-mokom-the-man-from-the-central-african-republic-on-trial-at-the-icc-182453