As illustrated in the upcoming book 'Ink-Stained Hollywood,' the crash that culminated in the March 1933 bank holiday — in which workers believed studios utilised the crisis to cut salaries and enhance corporate profits — proved a key event for the industry. 

The Great Depression was also prominently featured in adverts published in Hollywood newspapers. "Your Box Office Depression is Over," Paramount promised exhibitors who booked its films. MGM took it a step further with its "The Hell with Depression!" campaign in 1932, which featured cartoon depictions of Leo the Lion dancing joyfully and punching a man dressed in a tuxedo and top hat in another ad.

Unlike prior financial panics, the United States was now two years into this one, and the situation was worse. The unemployment rate was over 20%, which disproportionately affected African-American neighbourhoods and working-class whites. 

People who had previously considered themselves middle class were suddenly concerned about how they would make ends meet; those who had always been concerned about how they would make ends meet and without safety nets were thrown into new levels of poverty. Inexpensive types of amusement that were once thought to be depression-proof, like as going to the movies, began to be seen as a luxury, another item to be rationed.

The Hollywood Reporter tells us that the film exhibition industry in the United States has suffered significant losses and closures as a result of this. Small town theatres were particularly severely affected, according to film historian Kathryn Fuller-Seeley, who estimates that "by 1932, almost 8,000 of the nation's 23,000 movie theatres had gone." The East Coast and West Coast's densely populated urban areas suffered a moderate theatre closing rate of 7 percent to 20%, but the Midwest, Plains, South, and northern New England lost 22 percent to 47.7% of all their movie theatres." Reduced-price tickets, double-features, and "dish night" promotions (which were subsequently superseded by "bank night" cash prize drawings) were all used by small-town theatres to keep afloat.