By Shailesh khanduri
New Delhi: Amidst several charges of corruption against its leaders and government, Aam Aadmi Party convenor and Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal claimed Sunday the Aam Aadmi Party is like lord Krishna that is slaying demons like corruption.
Despite getting caught on the wrong foot on the issue of corruption which was the main plank of AAP, Kejriwal is not relenting in his blatant claims to be clean.
Addressing his party's first-ever national conclave at the Indira Gandhi Indoor Stadium on Sunday, Kejriwal said, "10-year-old AAP is like a young lord Krishna, it is slaying "big demons" -- corruption, inflation and unemployment. The AAP's inception on November 26, 2012 -- 63 years to the day the Constituent Assembly adopted the Constitution of India in 1949 -- after several months of deliberations was "not just a coincidence"."
He said the political parties then had left "no stone unturned to insult the Constitution's Independence".
"The God had to then intervene and the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) was formed on November 26, 2012 to save the Constitution, exactly 63 years after the constituent assembly adopted it," Kejriwal said.
He said no other political party has ever grown at the speed and the scale the AAP has in just 10 years since its formation.
While the party has been able to form governments in Delhi and Punjab, it has a total of 1,446 elected representatives in urban local bodies and panchayats in 20 states and Union Territories, he said, "The God has sown the seed of AAP in every state for the development of this country, giving us a huge responsibility," he said. "In Delhi and Punjab, seeds have turned into trees and are comforting people with their soothing shadow and fruits. This seed will now turn into a tree in Gujarat also." he added.
Kejriwal said people are looking at the AAP for its honest politics and works done by its government in Delhi.
Read more: https://www.newsdrum.in/national/despite-numerous-corruption-charges-arvind-kejriwal-calls-aap-god-that-is-slaying-demons-like-corruption-91320.html