In the end it wasn’t the most glamorous of victories against Fulham but we certainly did enough throughout the game to be deserving of the win, backed up by our 2.5-0.8 xG. In a deceptively hard fixture, both players and manager will be delighted with the result. Here’s how I rated the players’ performances:

8- Ramsdale: Made a few vital saves at important times in the match, stayed focused throughout and showed just why he was preferred over Leno.

6- Tierney: Struggled for composure on the ball compared compared to Zinchenko and failed to make a real impression on the game.

6- Gabriel: Made a very naive error trying to overplay the ball under significant pressure but made amends with the late winner.

8- Saliba: Characteristically solid throughout and started taking responsibility in build-up as the game went on completing 9/10 long passes. Also undeterred by Mitrovic’s physicality.

7- White: We’re starting to get used to these games from White. Barely put a foot wrong and did the fundamentals to a high-level.

7- Xhaka: Once again, not quite as eye catching as we’ve seen from him recently put he’s keeping up the high standards we’ve been seeing from him.

7- Elneny: A more limited deputy than the man he replaced but he knows his role and does his job efficiently allowing others to focus on progression.

9- Ødegaard: Took the game by the scruff of the neck and drove us forward as a team, deserved the goal. MOTM for sure.

7- Martinelli: Busy game as usual and made things happen but was unable to directly make any real impression on the goal.

7- Jesus: Pressed well from the front and brought others into the game but also didn’t see many clear sights of goal.

7- Saka: Good link-up with Ødegaard and all-round tidy play but will be frustrated he wasn’t able to get his name on the scoresheet.

Subs:
7- Nketiah: changed the game, Fulham’s defence couldn’t handle his strength and movement. Could’ve been more decisive in front of goal.
N/A- Tomiyasu, Tierney.

#Arsenal #PixstoryArsenal
