The Multiplex Association of India (MAI) stated on September 2 that on September 16, India would celebrate National Cinema Day, during which various theatres would offer tickets for just Rs. 75. As anticipated, audiences were ecstatic. After all, the average ticket cost, particularly in metropolises, is typically higher than Rs. 150 or Rs. 200. As a result, having the opportunity to see a movie for such a low price delighted customers, and many had already made arrangements to pack theatres on September 16.
The aam janta would probably have to wait a little longer to take advantage of this offer, though. Bollywood Hungama was informed by a source that "The MAI has decided to push back the National Cinema Day by a week. Instead of Friday, September 16, it will now take place on Friday, September 23.
The source's response when asked why this decision was made was, "The Ranbir Kapoor and Alia Bhatt starrer Brahmastra is the leading film right now and is doing fantastic. It has performed well on Monday, demonstrating that it will perform well throughout the second weekend as well. Disney, the publisher of Brahmastra, so asked the multiplex association to postpone the festivities by one week.
"The MAI and the multiplex teams found merit in their plea," the source continued. We are well aware of how expensive Brahmastra is to produce. It needs to generate a significant amount of daily revenue to be a success, and the Rs. 75 offer might serve as a barrier. Brahmastra is also appreciated by the multiplexes because it was this movie that brought an end to the box office dry spell. So they all complied with Disney's request. The third Friday in Brahmastra, September 23, will now be the day of the National Cinema Day.
"Brahmastra's ticket prices have been increased," an industry insider said. Yet a sizable audience is showing up. It is a wise decision to not sell its tickets for rock bottom prices on its eighth day because they will do so regardless of the ticket pricing over the second weekend.
