By NewsDrum Desk 
New York:External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar arrived here for the high-level UN General Assembly session, with a packed diplomatic week ahead that will include more than 50 official engagements including bilateral, plurilateral and multilateral meetings.
"#IndiaAtUNGA. Delighted to welcome our External Affairs Minister @DrSJaishankar who is now here to attend the 77th Session of the @UN General Assembly #UNGA. He will co-host & participate in several bilateral, plurilateral & multilateral meetings during this hectic week,” India’s Permanent Representative to the UN Ambassador Ruchira Kamboj said in a tweet Sunday.
Counter-terrorism, peacekeeping, reformed multilateralism, climate action and equitable access to COVID19 vaccines will be among the key focus areas for India during the high-level UN General Assembly session that begins this week here.
Jaishankar arrived in New York Sunday to participate in the high-level 77th session of the UN General Assembly, which kick-starts September 20 with the opening of the General Debate.
Jaishankar will address world leaders from the UNGA podium on September 24, after a packed week of more than 50 official engagements including bilateral, plurilateral and multilateral meetings at the high-level session and on the sidelines.
His first day of engagements will include several bilateral meetings, including with counterparts from Albania, Malta, Egypt and Indonesia as well as President of the 77th UNGA Session Csaba Korosi. He will also headline the France–India–UAE trilateral.
India's Permanent Mission to the UN had said in a video posted on Twitter that the five S’s - Samman (Respect), Samvad (Dialogue), Sahyog (Cooperation), Shanti (Peace) and Samriddhi (Prosperity) - set out by Prime Minister Narendra Modi will be India’s “guiding light” in its approach to the 77th session of the General Assembly.
It said India will continue to showcase commitments and achievements in women-led development, particularly women’s leadership and political participation at the grassroots level, attach greater prominence to issues relating to counter-terrorism and engage substantively in matters relating to peacekeeping as a major troop contributing country.
Read more: 
https://www.newsdrum.in/international/jaishankar-arrives-in-new-york-for-hectic-diplomatic-week-at-unga-high-level-session-91314.html