This year, around mid-January, Kalpana Deka Saha was down with COVID, forcing her to stay away from any physical activity for almost two-and-half months. 

A mother of two, the 41-year-old resumed her running by March end and for June she set her target of participating in the Tuffman Mashobra 80km ultramarathon – one of India’s toughest hill runs, with an elevation between 600m to 4450m. 

At the starting point, there were 33 participants, including two women. By the time the race ended, Kalpana was the lone warrior in the women’s section. She ran continuously for almost half-a-day to cover the distance of 80km on rough terrains and finished ahead of over 20 men. 

“For me Mashobra ultramarathon was a bit difficult, as I hardly had any training in hills. But once I started the run, there was no mental pressure and gradually the route became comfortable for me,” says Kalpana. “In January, I was infected with COVID, leading to severe chest congestion. Because of which I couldn’t do any physical activity for a long time. This was the longest break I had from running, since my first run in November 2016. Even my kids started asking me when I would again become a ‘runner mother’ from a normal mother. For me, getting back to running after COVID was like rediscovering myself. Eventually, my mental strength helped me to hit the road again,” adds Kalpana, who is a part of Noida-based running community XpressWay Runners.

Hooked to running 

Running experiences shared by the people from her native place Meghalaya, inspired Kalpana to enter the running world.

“My friends and known ones from Meghalaya are globally scattered. So, whenever they used to share their experiences of running in the London, Berlin or New York marathons, it motivated me and eventually I also took up running,” says Kalpana, who is now settled in Noida.

Kalpana’s first participation in the running event was of a 6km run and now she is a regular in the ultramarathon circuit.

“Whenever, wherever I get time, I go for a run, whether it’s morning or night,” says Kalpana, who is a consultant with the shipping industry.