As we approach to the third year of the pandemic studies are continuously progressing on the virus and new aspects are being discovered. Many are anxious about the next Covid variant which might emerge from the animals. Researchers are now observing the animals and are also trying to identify any pandemic causing viruses and other variants of Covid.  

“There are hundreds, thousands of coronavirus in many animal species," said Dr. Jeff Taubenberger, deputy chief of the Laboratory of Infectious Diseases at the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases (NIAID), as quoted by ABC news.  

“We don’t really know where they all are, we don’t know the full extent of the reservoir. We don’t know what the risks are." 

Studies hints about the coronavirus that have infected the minks, hamsters. It is reported that the wild white tail deer in North America is infected and as it infects more species, the evolution happens constantly. 

Now researchers are wondering whether it might infiltrate even more species than it is known to and then move back to humans again, potentially bringing new and dangerous COVID variants. 

“If the virus is able to infect other species, it will evolve differently," said Taubenberger. “It could give us a variant that is very different from what we’ve been exposed to. 

What can be done to prevent such infections?  

With COVID infecting more species and evolving to be fitter than before, experts are now focusing on developing a universal COVID vaccine that can protect against more variants.  

Scientists at the Walter Reed Army Institute of Research have been working on developing such a universal vaccine, which is currently undergoing the first phase of human trials. This universal vaccine would include multiple coronavirus fragments that could trigger immune responses to different strains of COVID-19, with the hopes of boosting immunity against more variants, the ABC news report said.  

What WHO said on next variant? 

The next Covid-19 variant will definitely be more contagious than omicron, but the real question is whether or not it will be more deadly World Health Organization pointed out.


Sources - www.livemint.com/science/health/coronavirus-infected-minks-hamsters-deers-scientists-warn-next-covid-variant-may-not-evolve-from-humans/amp-116463910