Denmark became the first country in the European Union to lift all of its Covid restrictions, despite having the second highest rate of infection in the world. That means the country – which saw over 2 million infections and 4000 deaths in the pandemic – would no longer require people to use masks, follow social distancing, isolation for negative and travel only if vaccinated.    

Health experts cited high rates of vaccination among 81 per cent of the population and that they no longer view Covid as a “socially critical” disease. 

But this decision, in a country where cases rose by 53 per cent in the last two weeks, with an average 45,272 new cases and 20 deaths every day, the decision to lift all Covid restrictions raised questions among international health experts.    

Denmark’s authorities say hospitalisation, ICU admissions and deaths were much less with Omicron than Delta and high vaccination rate, including over 60 per cent boosted, helped them lift the restrictions. Unless the hospital systems are overwhelmed, there is not much to worry, they argue. They also believe that the cost of continuing with restrictions are quite high. Perhaps, rampant protests against Covid restrictions in many European countries also may have played a role in the decision. Danish citizens have gone for vaccination wilfully, but don’t support compulsory vaccine mandates.  

International health experts, however, don’t agree with the decision as they believe it’s too early to lift guard. A new BA.2 Omicron variant that is more transmissible is spreading fast across Europe. Also, one needs to stay vigilant because vaccine protection is waning and new variants may still emerge with the capability of defying the existing vaccines. Allowing infections to spread among the population may help develop natural immunity, but that does not guarantee protection against newly mutated variants—just like those infected with Delta couldn’t fight Omicron.   
      

READ MORE:

 https://www.newsweek.com/denmark-vaccination-rate-covid-restrictions-lifted-compared-us-1674953

https://www.theatlantic.com/ideas/archive/2022/02/denmark-covid-restrictions/621482/

https://www.nytimes.com/2022/02/08/world/europe/denmark-covid-infections.html