In the third matchday of Group D, Iceland are all set to France with their qualification in the
knockouts up for grabs. France will travel to New York Stadium to complete the formalities on
Monday before they head for knockouts.
France are on top of Group D with six points from two games whereas Iceland find themselves
in second place with two points. Iceland need all three points to qualify for the next round.

In their previous game, France registered a 2-1 win against Belgium in an equally fought
contest. France scored in the 6th and 41st minute to seal the win. Kadidiatou Diani and Griedge
Mbock Bathy were on the scoresheet for France.

On the other hand, Iceland registered a second consecutive draw in Euro 2022. They drew
against Italy after going ahead in the 3rd minute. Karolina Lea scored in the third minute and the
team maintained the lead till the 62nd minute. However, the team had to share the spoils at
Manchester City Academy Stadium.

Iceland vs France Match Details
Match: Iceland vs France
Date and Time: 19th July, 12:30 AM IST
Venue: New York Stadium

Iceland vs France Probable Playing XI
Iceland: Sandra Sigurðardóttir (GK); Hallbera Guðný Gísladóttir, Glódís Perla Viggósdóttir, Sif
Atladóttir, Elísa Viðarsdóttir; Dagný Brynjarsdóttir, Gunnhildur Yrsa Jónsdóttir, Agla María
Albertsdóttir; Berglind Björg Þorvaldsdóttir, Svava Rós Guðmundsdóttir, Sveindís Jane
Jónsdóttir

France: Pauline Peyraud-Magnin; Eve Perisset, Aissatou Tounkara, Griedge Mbock, Selma
Siem Bacha; Kenza Dali, Charlotte Bilbault, Clara Dela Mateo; Katidatou Diani, Delphine
Cascarino, Marie-Antoinette Katoto

Iceland vs France Probable Winners
France have already qualified for the knockouts stage whereas Iceland have their fate in their
hands. A win is a must for Iceland to qualify for the next round. We can see a stern fight from
Iceland but we predict the game to end in an enthralling draw.

Predictions: Iceland 1-1 France

Iceland vs France Live Stream

The Iceland vs France game is available on the Sony LIV application and Sony Network