Chelsea are recently in the news because of the Russia-Ukraine conflict and several bidders are interested to win Chelsea from Roman Abramovich. Roman Abramovich started his ownership with Jose Mourinho who brought Chelsea decent fame with his tactics in the early 2000s. 

Roman was a shrewd owner who changed managers to win the titles and was successful in doing that. He re-appointed Jose Mourinho as a manager in 2013 to bring back the lost glory. Jose delivered that but failed to keep the momentum. Here is a piece on Chelsea managers post Mourinho's second term at Stamford Bridge. 

Antonio Conte

After Jose Mourinho’s reign, Antonio Conte was appointed as Chelsea’s manager. He was fresh off the managerial experience for Italy and won the title in his first season at Stamford Bridge. He also set the then-record of having 30 wins in a Premier League season. In his first season, the manager had a poor start but his tactical switch to 3-4-3 sent Chelsea on a 13 game winning run which sealed the deal for the side.  

The second season did not go as planned for Antonio Conte. He fell out with the board and players and the atmosphere soon turned toxic in London. After he was able to muster a FA Cup title, he was fired from his job but left as one of the most successful managers in the post-Mourinho era. 

Score: 8.5/10

Maurizio Sarri

Maurizio Sarri was appointed by Chelsea after Antonio Conte’s term at Stamford Bridge. The Italian was given a year’s contract and Chelsea aimed to win the title. Though he could not win the title for the club, he helped them finish in the top-four along with a few semifinals in domestic competitions.  

The manager went on to win the Europa League title in his solitary Premier League managerial appearance. However, the absence of Plan B and lackluster display in several games did not help his cause to win the fans. He left the club after managing the side for 63 games. Sarri had 40 wins and 11 draws and averaged 2.08 points per 90 before departing from Stamford Bridge. 

Score: 8/10