Around 60 Australian women and children are reported to be living in Syrian detention camps, most of them children under six years of age. This week, the federal government announced plans to rescue these Australians – family members of slain or jailed Islamic State combatants – from the camps and repatriate them.UNICEF says these and hundreds of other children in the camps are “critically vulnerable and in urgent need of protection”, without basics including warm clothes, hygiene, health, education and food.The time spent in the Syrian detention camps will have affected these children differently depending on their age and stage of development. Their experiences will likely affect their lifelong health and well-being. What is needed to address the trauma experienced during their stay and the challenges they will face following repatriation? How can we help?How they got thereIn 2013, the Islamic State of Iraq and al-Sham (ISIS) (also called Islamic State in Iraq and the Levant (ISIL)) joined a rebellion against the Syrian government in the Middle East.By mid to late 2014, they controlled a large part of Syrian and Iraqi territories. During this peak of successes in gaining territories, ISIS attracted thousands of people from around the world to come join their ranks. Reportedly, about 300 people from Australia joined ISIS and other militant groups.In Syria, ISIS set up a government with a caliphate as the head in its control areas. Vulnerable young Muslim women were lured online from western countries to become brides of ISIS fighters. Women were promised a better future and community where they would be loved, appreciated and valued as Muslim members. But they became a commodity, sold among ISIS fighters on arrival to Syria.In March 2019, ISIS was defeated and its government collapsed. Thousands of women and children of ISIS fighters were rounded up by the Autonomous Administration of North East Syria and placed in detention camps. Read more: https://theconversation.com/for-the-traumatised-australian-children-escaping-syrian-detention-camps-help-here-will-be-life-changing-191856