By Ahmed Ali Fayyaz

The broad daylight assassination of the migrant Pandit employee Rahul Bhat (36) at his Tehsildar office in Chadoora, Budgam, in the Kashmir valley on 12 May 2022 has raised big questions over the sustainability of the government policy introduced in 2008 for return and rehabilitation of the displaced minority community.

( Link https://youtu.be/so2aM9lDZKw)

Manohar Lalgami, a journalist from Kashmir talks to The Probe

Like the killing spree by terrorists ahead of the Union Home Minister Amit Shah’s visit in October 2021, Bhat’s murder has sent shockwaves across the Union Territory. It has simultaneously brought into question the much repeated claims of normalcy made by the authorities after the abrogation of Article 370 in August 2019.

Bhat is the first of around 4,000 Kashmiri Pandits employed under the Prime Minister’s special package for the displaced community’s return and rehabilitation who has fallen to the terrorists’ bullet. It is for the first time since 1990 that the Kashmiri Pandits staged demonstrations and shouted slogans, among others, against the BJP, the Home Minister and the Lieutenant Governor, holding them all responsible for their failure to safeguard the migrant employees.

Bhat’s family has been complaining that the Deputy Commissioner of Budgam did not respond to their repeated requests, seeking his transfer back to the Budgam Tehsil office or any other secure place. Appointed as class IV orderly in the PM Package’s first batch in 2010, Bhat was promoted as Junior Assistant in 2020 and transferred in 2021 from Tehsildar office Budgam to Tehsildar office Chadoora.

Every killing creates a fear. Even if one person is killed, that terrifies everyone. The government must ensure the safety and security of its citizens. Even the administration has started discriminating against the Kashmiri Pandits. They have been denied promotion that was due to them. Their juniors are promoted and Kashmiri Pandits always face such neglect and discrimination. This must change.

Manohar Lalgami
Journalist, Kashmir

Read the full story here:- https://theprobe.in/rahul-bhats-killing-raises-questions-about-rehabilitation-scheme-for-kashmiri-pandits/