Healthy diets alone won't give you significant effects of a good lifestyle, but it should also accompany with regular exercise. Both have to go hand in hand, and any one alone won't give a better result. 

A new study shows that exercise and a healthy diet, individually can lower down the risk of mortality but the large amount of risk can only be lowered when doing both. 

The study also proves that high levels of physical activity do not counteract the negative health effects of a poor diet habit. 

As per the researchers the findings look into the importance of both a healthy diet and a regular physical activity. The researchers wrote “Adhering to both quality diet and sufficient physical activity is important for optimally reducing the risk of mortality from all causes, [cardiovascular disease] CVD, and [adiposity-related] PDAR cancers.” 

Exercise and diet, together, linked to lowest mortality risk  

The study selected few participants and analysed how much exercise each participant completed in an average week along with the intensity of their physical activity is also looked into. The team also looked into the eating habits as well. 

The study proved that any type of regular exercise was linked with a lower risk of mortality and those who ate and exercised had a lower risk of dying.  

Even though exercise and diet are independently associated with a lower risk of mortality, high levels of exercise will not completely mitigate the harms of a poor diet. 

“In our study, those who ate a poor-quality diet and were active still had substantially reduced mortality risk than those who ate a poor-quality diet and were inactive,” Melody Ding, MPH, PhD, the lead author of the study and an associate professor of health and medicine in the Sydney School of Public Health at the University of Sydney, told Healthline. “It’s just that you had the maximum risk reduction when doing both things right.” 

The findings shows that in order to reduce the overall mortality risk peoplehave to do both eat healthy and exercise regularly.  

Sources - Healthline