The list of all 9,000 delegates from the central election authority would be available at the AICC office starting on September 20 for anyone wishing to submit a candidacy for the position of Congress president, according to Congress leader Madhusudan Mistry.
Regarding the electoral rolls and the "transparency, fairness" of the election process, which were raised by five MPs, including Shashi Tharoor, Karti Chidambaram, and Manish Tewari, Mr. Mistry said people wishing to run for office can check the names of 10 delegates from the list.
He wrote in a letter to the MPs that they would receive the whole list of delegates after the nomination was signed and delivered to the Chief Returning Officer.
In his letter to Tharoor and others, Mistry stated, "If anyone seeks to acquire nominations from 10 supporters from different states, the list of all 9000+ delegates would be available in my office at AICC, Delhi from September 20th (11 AM to 6 PM), before they file their nomination on September 24th.
They are welcome to select 10 supporters (delegates) from the list and get their signatures in order to be nominated, he stated.
The nomination period is from September 24 to September 30. The election for Congress President will take place on October 17.
Anyone who was concerned about submitting their nominations without knowing the delegates' names should no longer be concerned. The whole list of delegates will be provided to the Chief Returning Officer once the nomination has been signed and delivered to them.
"As a signatory to the letter along with my legislative colleagues, I am satisfied with the reply from @MD Mistry ji & I endorse the thoughts of my senior colleague @ShashiTharoor," Mr. Chidambaram added in a separate tweet.
Mr. Mistry advised anyone who want to submit a nomination to see if they have a delegate identity card on hand.
Mr. Mistry stated in his letter that only individuals with legitimate identification cards will be permitted to sign the nomination papers for the position of Congress President.