Natasha Fyles will be the Northern Territory’s next Chief Minister, after the shocking resignation of Michael Gunner earlier this week.

The 43-year-old was elected as leader following a Labor caucus meeting at Parliament House in Darwin this morning.

Ms Fyles confirmed the news in a statement, saying the caucus "selected me as the unanimous choice for Leader of the Territory Labor Party".

"This afternoon I will visit the administrator to be sworn in as Chief Minister of the Northern Territory.

"Our united and stable team is now focused on getting on with our first priority – serving Territorians."

The selection of Ms Fyles means the party does not have to take the vote of its rank-and-file membership — a process that could have taken the party up to four weeks.

Labor ministers had expressed optimism the party would come out of the caucus meeting with a new leader during the week.

But in the lead up, speculation had mounted Ms Fyles, Police Minister Nicole Manison and Member for Johnston Joel Bowden could all contest the leadership, forcing weeks of political uncertainty.

Ms Fyles is the Leader of Government Business and has been the NT Health Minister since 2016, and was the Attorney-General between 2016 and 2020.

Ms Fyles was first elected to parliament in 2012 and was promoted to the frontbench after Labor's landslide win in 2016.

As Health Minister, she has been a highly visible presence throughout the pandemic along with Mr Gunner and NT Chief Health Officer Hugh Heggie.

Following his resignation, Mr Gunner praised Ms Fyles as "Australia's best Health Minister".

"Tash, Australia's best health minister. I don't know what's better – seeing how much fun she has on the floor of parliament, or seeing how much the other side hates it," he said. 

Part of Labor's left faction, Ms Fyles was considered alongside Ms Manison, of the right faction, to be the frontrunners for the job.

Ms Fyles represents the electorate of Nightcliff in Darwin's northern suburbs, which is considered the safest Labor seat in the territory, with a large margin of 26.7 per cent.

https://www.abc.net.au/news/2022-05-13/nt-labor-selects-new-chief-minister-after-gunner-resignation/101062564