The Joint Working Group on Civil Society Organizations called on the United Nations to recognize the attacks on Afghanistan's Hazaras as "genocide" and to crack down on the terrorist groups behind them.

The latest attack on the Abdul Rahim Shahid school in western Kabul left dozens dead.

Although the Taliban say at least six people have been killed and 11 others injured in three bomb blasts in western Kabul on Tuesday, some sources say at least 30 students have been killed and several others injured.

Abdul Rahim Shahid School is one of the largest schools in Afghanistan with 30,000 students.

Emphasizing that the specific killing of Hazaras in Afghanistan is a case of genocide and a crime against humanity, the Joint Working Group on Civil Society Organizations called on all international organizations and the international community, including the United Nations, not to remain silent in the face of this crime. Press to prevent the recurrence of such crimes in the future.

Meanwhile, a number of social media users have once again called for an end to the millennial genocide in Afghanistan by launching the hashtag #StopHazaraGenocide.

For the first time, the Afghan Independent Human Rights Commission (AIHRC) in May 2021, after a bloody explosion at the Sayyid al-Shuhada School, stressed the need to protect "populations at risk of war crimes, crimes against humanity, ethnic cleansing or genocide."

The commission at the time called on the United Nations to send an expert team of independent investigators to Afghanistan to investigate the killings and other violence in Afghanistan.

Although various agencies in Afghanistan have repeatedly called for the truth to be investigated into the widespread violence in Afghanistan, the United Nations has not yet responded satisfactorily to these requests.

In the latest case, the United Nations has appointed Richard Bennett as its Special Rapporteur on the situation of human rights in Afghanistan.

In an interview with TOLOnews, Richard Bennett said he would investigate human rights abuses by various groups involved in Afghanistan and share the results with the United Nations.