Curry leaves or sweet neem leaves are greatly used in the Indian culinary and its also used for medicinal purposes as well. The are widely used as seasoning in South Indian dishes which produces a unique flavour and aroma through various dishes such like sambhar, rasam, chutney and many more. 

Nutritional Value of Curry Leaves 

100 grams of curry leaves provide around 108 calories of energy. They are rich in carbohydrates, proteins, fibre, calcium, phosphorus, iron and other minerals. They also contain vitamins like vitamin A, vitamin B, vitamin C, vitamin E, etc. 

Health Benefits of Curry Leaves 

1. Powerful antioxidant 

Curry leaves are rich in plant compounds which are powerful antioxidants. These compounds keep us healthy and protect us from numerous diseases. 

They protect us from oxidative damage, preventing diseases of the nervous system, cardiovascular system, kidneys etc. 

2. May reduce the risk of cancer 

Curry leaves have anti-mutagenic potential. They protect our bodies from different types of cancers. 

Flavonoids in Curry leaves act as anti-cancer agents. They are effective in inhibiting the growth of breast cancer cells. 

Curry leaves also protect the body from colon cancers. Curry leaves are also beneficial in protecting our bodies from cervical cancer. 

3. Reduces risk of heart diseases 

Curry leaves protect our hearts by preventing oxidative damage. Consumption of Curry leaves also decreases cholesterol levels. It also reduces the level of triglycerides. 

Reduction in risk factors thus helps in protecting us from heart diseases. 

4. Helps in the management of diabetes 

Consumption of Curry leaves helps in the management of diabetes and its related complications. Curry leaves were found to be highly effective in reducing blood glucose levels. 

Curry leaves are rich in fibre which slows down digestion, thus preventing sudden spikes in blood sugar levels in our blood. They also boost the activity of insulin, further helping patients with diabetes. You can take a look at the Diabetes Food Chart to find other foods that can be included in your Diabetic Diet Plan. 


Read more - https://www.google.com/amp/s/pharmeasy.in/blog/health-benefits-of-curry-leaves/amp/