There is an iconic video of Dennis Bergkamp’s goal against Argentina in the dying minutes of the quarterfinal in World Cup ’98. A sublime lob by Frank de Boer from his half is superbly taken down by Bergkamp in the box and finished with finesse. The Dutch commentator can barely contain his emotions and repeatedly screams Dennis Bergkamp in a video that is still very popular online. 
Dennis Bergkamp was one of Arsenal’s all-time greats, fondly nicknamed the ‘Non-Flying Dutchman’ due to his fear of air travel. Bergkamp made 185 appearances (103 goals) for Ajax and 52 appearances (11 goals) for Internazionale respectively before moving to Arsenal in 1995 where he spent the majority of his career. Bergkamp played most of his career at striker and second striker. Thierry Henry once described his former teammate as a ‘dream for a striker’. Bergkamp had a difficult start to life at Arsenal, ridiculed in the media for his inability to score after failing to net in his first seven games for the club. He ended the 1995/96 season with 11 goals in 33 appearances. The next season was marked by the arrival of Arsene Wenger which was a turning point in the fortunes of Bergkamp and his club. Bergkamp was instrumental in Arsenal winning the League and Cup double in 1997/98. He distributed his contributions between goals and assists. He was often in the running for both top scorer and most assists in a season. In 2001/02, he was again instrumental as Wenger led the club to another double. In 2003/04, he was part of ‘The Invincibles’ team who set a record that even today looks near impossible to breach. 2005/06 was Bergkamp’s last year at Arsenal; it was also the last year for Highbury Stadium as Arsenal’s home. 15 April 2006 was designated as ‘Bergkamp Day’ at the stadium; he fittingly scored his last Arsenal goal on the day. The first game played at The Emirates was a testimonial in his honour. In 2014, a statue of Bergkamp was unveiled outside the Emirates in honour of his contributions to one of the best teams in the Premier League era.