By using security laws, deploying surveillance technology, and leveraging potent national interest narratives, Narendra Modi’s Hindu-first government has targeted critics and eroded the rule of law in India—often in violation of the Constitution, using legal loopholes and grey areas. Through the lens of the notorious Bhima Koregaon case, we investigate these tactics in-depth, and report how citizens are fighting to preserve the world’s largest democracy.

PROLOGUE

‘The State is coming for us’


Kolkata: The knock on the door came at 6.30 am on 17 April 2018, as singers Jyoti Jagtap and her husband Ramesh Gaichor were preparing to leave their home in Pune, a city of nearly 7 million people long known as a centre of culture and resistance to whoever ruled India.

Around 15 policemen entered the house, showing no warrant and refusing to answer questions, according to Jagtap, then 31. The police rummaged through clothes and confiscated event pamphlets, as well as a calendar featuring Babasaheb Ambedkar, the architect of India’s constitution and an icon for Dalits, historically considered the lowest of India’s castes. The police left with phones and computer hard disks.

Jagtap and Gaichor are artistes with the Kabir Kala Manch, a cultural organisation of young Dalit musicians, formed after the Gujarat riots of 2002—in which more than 1,000 people, the majority of them Muslim, were killed. The Manch sing for democracy, opposing caste divisions, inter-religious strife, and the majoritarian politics of Hindutva—the right-wing Hindu ideology of India’s ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), its ecosystem of allied organisations, and Prime Minister Narendra Modi.

As a consequence, members of the Manch, like Jagtap and Gaichor, have become targets.

While the police didn’t say, the trigger for the raid that morning was their performance at an event that the pair had helped organise four months earlier at Shaniwar Wada in Pune.

Read more- https://article-14.com/post/the-security-playbook-used-to-erode-democracy-in-modi-s-india-how-the-tide-might-turn-62208c605b96a