Rishi Sunak and Liz Truss are the final two candidates chosen to go head-to-head in the battle to become the next leader of the Conservative party and, therefore, the next prime minister of the UK.

They emerged as the top two candidates in a series of ballots among Conservative MPs and so will spend the summer campaigning to win votes from members of the party, which according to the House of Commons Library amounted to 180,000 in 2019. The final winner will then be announced on September 5.

Many people think this is not a legitimate way to select the next prime minister even though they might accept that Conservative party members should be involved in selecting their next leader. However precedence is in play here, since this is how it has been done in the past. Whatever the public might think of it, the system is not going to be changed before the new leader is in Downing Street.

A YouGov poll of Conservative party members published on July 21 showed that the members are very likely to support Liz Truss rather than Rishi Sunak in this contest – with 62% preferring her and 38% him.

This result creates a strategic dilemma for the party because Conservative voters beyond the party prefer Sunak to Truss. A poll of Conservative voters conducted by JL Partners for the Daily Telegraph published on July 16 showed that Sunak was in the lead. Some 60% of them thought Sunak would make a good prime minister and 11% thought he would be bad. The figures for Truss were 48% good and 32% bad. So among Conservative voters Sunak is both more popular and less polarising than Truss.

This conclusion is reinforced by a poll from Opinium which asked respondents to identify who they thought did best in the leadership debate on ITV on July 17, when five candidates were still in the running. Sunak came second of the five with 24% of the vote. Truss came last with 7%.

Read more: https://theconversation.com/rishi-sunak-or-liz-truss-polling-shows-party-members-want-her-but-the-wider-voting-public-would-choose-him-187286