Serena Williams is arguably one of the greatest tennis players in the history of the sport. She has been an icon for women’s tennis for the last 23 years and in that span, she has notched up some personal accomplishments along the way. At the time of retirement after this year’s USOpen, her net worth is estimated to be $270 million. This makes her the highest-ranked athlete on the Forbes list of 100-self-made women. Several factors contribute to this immense success.
Career Prize Money
Serena Williams started her professional career in 1995 winning her first title in 1999. Since then she has managed to win 73 singles titles including 23 majors. In addition to that,t she has won 25 doubles titles. Serena has managed to earn $94,816,730 in prize money alone. That is by far the highest on the WTA tour and more than double of second-placed Venus Williams, her sister.
Endorsement Deals
The younger of the Williams sisters quickly became a celebrity through her brand deals. Ever since Nike signed Serena for a $40 million deal in 2004, she has had a plethora of endorsement deals. Over the years that have amounted to more than $350 million in deals. Other brandsWIlliams has endorsed include Gatorade, Delta, Aston Martin, Pepsi, IBM, Intel, Chase Bank, and Beats by Dre headphones.
Business Deals
Serena has also turned to business through her investment company, Serene Ventures. The company is said to have investments in more than 60 startups around the world. She is also a 75 million investor in UFC and has minority stakes in the NFL team Miami Dolphins. The 41-year-old is also an owner of the Angel City women’s football team. Much of her investment is also dedicated to charity work and forwarding activism, especially for social causes like black lives Matter and LGBT movements.
Serena has evolved from being just a tennis star to a cultural icon. It has become a self-made brand. Her $45.9 million earnings in 2021 in a year when she hardly played professional tennis is evidence of this fact.