Most recently, horrendous communal crimes that shook the conscience of common man- brutal beheading of an ordinary tailor named Kanhaiya Lal by two religious in bigots in Udaipur, killing of Umesh Kolhe in Amaravati, murder of BJP youth leader Praveen Nettaru in Karnataka, arrest of martial arts trainer in Telangana and recovery of Vision-2047 document in Phulwari sherif, Bihar all had one common connection i.e., the involvement of PFI. The gravity of the crimes, inevitably, warranted investigation by country’s premier investigating agency NIA.
Apart from NIA, Enforcement Directorate (ED) is also probing the PFI in multiple cases, including its role in the anti-CAA stir and the northeast Delhi riots, and a foreign funding case in 2018. ED is also probing alleged links between the PFI and Bhim Army and their role in funding unrest amongst the disadvantaged groups in north India. Recently, ED conducted nationwide raids on premises linked to the radical outfit, Popular Front of India (PFI), in connection with multiple cases of money laundering.
 The searches covered 26 locations across nine states, including premises associated with PFI Chairman O M Abdul Salam and national secretary Nasarudheen Elamaram. These are the cases being probed by the central agencies. State police of different states including Uttar Pradesh, Karnataka, Kerala etc. are currently probing hundreds of cases against PFI and its sister organisations.

	Contrary to the claim of PFI, the organisation has been found to be involved in a number of cases which are not only criminal in nature but also detrimental to the security and integrity of India. The Jharkhand government in 2019 banned the Popular Front of India (PFI) in the state. U.P and Karnataka are also in the process to put a ban on the radical outfit. After giving a serious thought the government has decided to ban PFI, as it has a nationwide footprint and therefore needs a nationwide action.  The future of the nation will depend on the shoulders of those in power with a clear vision to safeguard the interests of the nation.
