Sun Foundation is consistently working towards its mission of imparting technical training to the needy and underprivileged and to encourage curiosity and innovativeness among the students to acquire quick learning ability and adaptive learning with the fast-changing needs of the industry. It is with this pledge, Sun Foundation has been mandated by DTTE (Dept. of Training and Technical Education) Govt. of NCT of Delhi to run World Class Skill Centre at ITI Campus, Jail Road, New Delhi. This multi skilling centre, with international standards, imparts world class skill courses for Indian/ global needs supported by Industry.
Sun Foundation has created a benchmark for vocational training by making them relevant to industry and demand driven. The Foundation is driven to make a difference by preparing the prestigious national asset of the country - YOUTH towards "institution creation" rather than "infrastructure creation". Our vision is to provide world class skills to the youth of India by imparting world class training, training technologies and world class physical environment. We are proud to say that the students skilled at the institute shall be valued assets of the country who are qualified for global opportunities as well.

The Foundation comprises of highly energetic and dynamic team lead by its Chairman, CEO, Director and well qualified faculty members to enhance the quality of teaching and training of students. This is done with in-depth teaching, industrial visits, training seminars, conferences and expert lectures to prepare them for opportunities that await them.

It has also made it easier for Afghan refugees to study in the department without paying.Approximately 103 Afghans attended the first semester held during the 2021 Corona.
This year, there are 52 students in the Fashion Designer
section and 42 students in the makeup artist department.
For students, international certificat is considered. Provides all facilities for Afghan refugees.
Each semester is 6 months, during which all courses are taught as standard.


📍: ITI Campus, Jail Road, New Delhi
🌐: https://dpsru.edu.in/world-class-skill-centerwcsc/