Christians make up less than 0.3% of Madhya Pradesh’s population, unchanged over 70 years. Yet Hindu extremists, encouraged by the partisan role of police and administration, have amped up intimidation and attacks on schools, homes and churches. Most attacks come from Hindu fundamentalist organisations affiliated with India’s and the state's ruling party, especially encouraged by a 2021 anti-conversion law, misinformation, and hostile social-media campaigns.

Around 6 am on 6 December 2021 in the central Madhya Pradesh (MP) town of Vidisha, Brother Anthony, principal of the St Joseph Parish School, received a WhatsApp message from a teacher, warning him that Hindu extremist groups intended to hold a rally at the school.

Brother Anthony, who was settling down in his office and preparing for the class-12 mathematics examination scheduled later in the day, notified the police and the administration of the rally planned by the Bajrang Dal and the Vishwa Hindu Parishad (VHP), both Hindu fundamentalist organisations allied with the state’s and India’s ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP). 

At 12.30 pm, a mob of more than 400 forced its way into the school. "Jai Shri Ram!" they shouted, echoing a salutation that has now become a slogan used by Hindu extremists to menace minorities.  

Other slogans were raised: "Dharm ki raksha kaun karega, hum karenge, hum karenge! (who will protect the religion? We will, we will!)" and "Dharmantaran nahi hone denge (we will not allow conversion).” 

Then, the violence began.

After the damage was done, two policemen reached the school. No arrests were made at that moment. Four arrested after the video of the attack went viral got bail within 24 hours. 

The Bajrang Dal and the VHP justified their attack on the school based on "ground input" that eight Hindu students were converted to Christianity.

"They were in no mood to talk,” said Brother Anthony. “They just started attacking the staff and vandalising glass windows, cars of the teachers, and whatever came in between, with iron rods and stones". 

Read more- https://article-14.com/post/police-govt-ally-with-hindu-groups-intimidating-attacking-christians-in-mp-0-29-of-state-population--61fb458cf16f5