The Sermon on the Mount, found in the Bible books of Matthew and Luke, is one of Jesus' most famous teachings. It's akin to a manifesto for living a Christian life. Jesus was lecturing on a hilltop overlooking the Sea of Galilee, not far from Capernaum, where he lived. The Beatitudes, a set of remarks addressed to Jesus' disciples, open the sermon. Each Beatitude describes how people are blessed or discover deep peace and joy inside themselves. For anybody who follows Christ, the Beatitudes serve as a code of ethics or norms. They are counter-cultural in that they think in the opposite direction of the rest of the world. One example is ‘blessed are the meek for they will inherit the earth’. In other words, it is the lowly who think little of themselves who will inherit the earth, not the powerful. Two others are ‘blessed are those who mourn, for they will be comforted’ and ‘blessed are the peacemakers, for they will be called children of God’. The rest of the sermon covers a wide range of topics. Jesus preaches about the need of avoiding anger and urging people to resolve conflicts swiftly. He discusses passion, divorce, and leading a pure life. When individuals are wronged, he advises them not to retaliate. He urges people to love their adversaries and pray for those who persecute them in an unusual message. He cautions individuals against having a negative attitude toward money, offers guidance on worrying, and cautions them against criticising others. Because Jesus was aware that religious leaders were among his audience, he directed some of his remarks on them and their hypocrisy. He believes that rather than making a visible display of generosity, people should donate to those in need quietly. He also advised them to pray quietly and privately rather than in public. It is here that Jesus teaches the Lord's Prayer, which has come to be known as the Lord's Prayer. He concludes by encouraging people to seek God and to build firm foundations for their lives — in other words, to put his words into action.