There have been studies and so many of them post covid but what people are most concerned about is long term effects . A recent study has shown brain fog is a reality, even if the disease is mild. 

New studies are being found that links between the covid infection to cognitive disfunction, even if the disease was of less severity. 

A study, a preprint published in Nature analyzed 785 UK Biobank participants who are aged between 52 to 81 who consistently go for brain scans and cognitive testing as a part of the Biobanks data gathering. 

Half of the participants, almost 401, were tested positive for covid after that data was gathered. The rest of 384 participants did not test positive for the virus. 

In both groups these initial brain scans and cognitive tests were compared with later scans and tests. Participants who had had covid diagnosed showed notably greater changes to the brain, as well as notably greater declines in cognitive scores, than those who did not. This difference remained significant when 15 participants who were admitted to hospital were excluded from the analysis, suggesting that even milder infections are associated with changes to the brain.

The changes seen in the previously infected participants included greater reduction in grey matter thickness and tissue contrast in the orbitofrontal cortex and parahippocampal gyrus, greater changes in markers of tissue damage in regions functionally connected to the primary olfactory cortex, and greater reduction in global brain size than was seen in the control group.

Persistent effects

Cognitive scores also declined further over the study period in the infected participants than in the control group. The degree of cognitive decline correlated with the extent of physical changes to participants’ brains. The average time from covid diagnosis to the second scan was 141 days, suggesting that negative effects persist for at least four or five months.

“Whether this deleterious impact can be partially reversed, or whether these effects will persist in the long term, remains to be investigated with additional follow-up,” the authors wrote.


Sources - https://www.bmj.com/content/376/bmj.o640