Hannah Corbin, the star Peloton instructor shares about her journey with the Hashimoto’s disease. She tells that for about four four years back she observed a drastic difference in her overall health. The star is a dancer by training and a fitness guru who reaches to millions of people on daily vases through her workout program, she observed that she was constantly being tired. 

Corbin said to Healthline that, “My level of exhaustion was hard to describe, I would tell people I was tired and would try to verbalize how I was feeling. Some people would see my career choice and go ‘of course you’re tired, you work out for a living, duh," 

“I think it was more than that, it was an exhaustion in my core that was so daunting to even open my eyes some days. All I wanted to do was sleep, and even sleep wasn’t fulfilling that exhaustion. I never felt my cup was full.” 

As being a New Yorker, she could feel that pressure of being surrounded with people who were on the go and it was hard for her to manage her levels of exhautions while her friends were doing many things in one go. 

While she saw these symptoms of fatigue she ignored them and believed that it was a part of the city life. 

But Corbin, noticed fluctuations in her weight and she almost gained 15 pounds and she said that she felt as if she was over all "swollen". She tried mixing up her exercises and work harder and train more, but she didn't have enough energy to do the heavy workouts. 

She consulted many doctors and other medical professionals to get cleared with her concerns. But she wasn't given right interventions.

With a dietician's help she was advised to take a series of blood tests and with her results, the dietician told her to meet a specialist “not next month, but tomorrow.”
After some more round of blood test with an endocrinologist, Corbin's condition of Hashimoto’s disease or Hashimoto’s thyroiditis was confirmed. 

Sources https://www.healthline.com/health-news/from-autoimmune-to-auto-amazing-pelotons-hannah-corbin-on-living-with-hashimotos-disease#Living-with-Hashimotos-disease