Arsenal Managing Competitions

Sitting tidy at the top of the pile, Arsenal have had an incredible start to the season - with 7 wins in 8 games, winning at the likes of Selhurst Park, Brentford Community Stadium & beating the likes of Fulham & most recently Spurs, scoring 20 in the process.

More importantly than just results, are Arsenal’s results sustainable, particularly with the fixture congestion? 

Every metric backs up Arsenal being very good value for their position, being 2nd in most metrics such as shot creating actions & xG conceded - often behind the inevitable Man City.

This as well as the eye test goes far to show that Arsenal aren’t just in a ‘honeymoon phase’ but instead are just in fact, are very good team. 

One of the potential downfalls of the Gunners Is depth, but in my opinion, this area is drastically underrated for Arsenal & has been majorly improved, to last season. 

Fabio Vieira, an incredible versatile midfielder/ forward hybrid to allow Ødegaard to rest midweek. Eddie Nketiah, once again a very versatile forward who’s game has developed incredibly, a great option to provide Saka & Jesus, Martinelli rests if needed.

A keeper in Turner, a fantastic defender hybrid in Tomiyasu, who can fill in anywhere, Tierney/ Zinchenko, Nelson back & Marquinhos highly impressive among others…

With a very manageable Europa group & away win in Switzerland to begin, and an incredibly versatile, zone oriented team, Arsenal are in great stead to not have the Europa disrupt League consistency, and if anything enhance it with young, hungry players being provided a platform to impress. 

The latter stages will be harder to manage, but ultimately Arsenal’s squad building of zones & versatility over one dimensional positions enables most of the squad to be rotated, with the odd first team player, and the likes of Elneny & ESR to come.

Very exciting times ahead for Arsenal, who showed incredible developing signs last season, but have managed to go up a new level this season, without the Europa being a disadvantage. 
