Gone are the days when war was stopped to play a game of football. Now the scene is completely opposite – even the governing body of the game, FIFA, stands politicalized, though in the disguise of humanitarian grounds. FIFA’s decision to kick out Russia from the World Cup almost immediately after the Russians attacked Ukraine, according to many, was bit of a knee-jerk reaction that came under pressure from a certain quarter. Nevertheless, Russia’s action was indeed brutal and no wonder they stand friendless at the moment. Russia, however, have refused to take the ouster lying down and are set to take FIFA to Court of Arbitration for Sport (CAS) against the decision. The Russian football federation said in a statement it would file one lawsuit against FIFA to demand that Russian men’s and women’s national teams be allowed to compete, including in qualifying for this year’s World Cup in Qatar.
It is certainly a morale victory for Ukraine, but it doesn’t solve their problems fully. Ukrainian football is in complete doldrums now and all activities have been suspended because of the ongoing war. In fact, the Ukrainian football association has asked FIFA to postpone its World Cup qualifier against Scotland. Ukraine is scheduled to face Scotland in the World Cup play-off semi-final on March 24 at Hampden Park, but the Ukrainian football association has requested that the match be postponed due to the country's current situation. On the other hand, Poland and Scotland are now planning to play an exhibition match on March 24 to raise funds for Ukraine. Overall, football in Europe is in jeopardy, it will take a long time to restore normalcy even after the devastating war comes to an end. Back in 1914 during World War I, a ceasefire took place in the trenches followed by something extraordinary is said to have happened: a game of football between troops in No Man’s Land. In 2014, a match was played to commemorate the centenary of the great occasion, but it could hardly be re-enacted when the actual war broke out. Football stopping war is only a fairy-tale story.