
This September, WWE returns to the U.K. for its first major stadium event in 30 years with Clash at the Castle on September 3 rd, 2022. Held at the Principality Stadium in Cardiff. 
The Ultimate Homecoming Match
Two-time WWE Champion, one-time WWE Intercontinental Champion, one-time NXT Champion, and a two-time WWE (Raw) Tag Team Champion – Drew McIntyre needs no introduction. The Scottish sensation has his sights set on making history as he looks to end Roman Reign’s 700 day reign as champion in the Ultimate championship.
Homeground Advantage - Since Clash at the Castle is WWE’s first major stadium event that is being held in the United Kingdom after 30 years, Drew enters this match with a rare home ground advantage over Roman Reigns, the reigning world champion.
The Brawl of a Lifetime
At WWE Clash at the Castle, Intercontinental Champion Gunther defends the gold against number one contender Sheamus. On paper, this promises to be a hard-hitting affair between two wrestlers that have yet to meet in singles competition
“The Ring General” to make an impression on the blue brand, topping Ricochet for the Intercontinental Championship the following June. Since then, Gunther has been a dominant champion, retaining the gold in a rematch with Ricochet and against Shinsuke Nakamura, the latter proving to be one of the best IC title matches in recent memory.
The dominance of Gunther should come as no surprise to wrestling fans familiar with his work. The Austrian powerhouse was the longest-reigning NXT United Kingdom Champion, holding the title in question for a staggering 870 days
"The Celtic Warrior” recognized that the Intercontinental Championship was the only major WWE title he never held. Despite numerous attempts to capture said title, Sheamus said he was “shortchanged.” However, he believed Clash at the Castle to be his stage to claim the proverbial missing piece of the puzzle. Sheamus then shifted his attention to Gunther, telling “The Ring General” he would drag him “into the belly of the red dragon” and defeat him for the Intercontinental Championship.