The third episode of season four of 'The Crown' begins with a trigger warning: “The following episode includes scenes of an eating disorder which some viewers may find troubling. Viewer discretion is advised. Information and resources for those struggling with eating disorders are available at www.wannatalkaboutit.com.”

'The Crown' is known for sensationalising real-life events, even when it borders on uncouth. The depiction of Diana’s bulimia, however, is very much rooted in reality. 

In 1992, Andrew Morton published his biography on the Princess of Wales, called 'Diana: Her True Story'. It contained explosive details about Diana’s eating disorder—something long rumoured in the press but never covered this extensively. Turns out his source for it all was Diana herself, who, through an intermediary, passed the author confessional tapes: “The bulimia started the week after we got engaged and would take nearly a decade to overcome,” the princess recorded herself saying. “My husband put his hand on my waistline and said: ‘Oh, a bit chubby here, aren’t we?’ and that triggered off something in me—and the Camilla thing.” Elizabeth Emanuel, the designer of Diana’s wedding gown, later revealed in interviews that when they started dress fittings, Diana’s waist measured 26 to 27 inches. By July 1981, it had whittled down to 23.

The BBC interviewer Martin Bashir asked her about it point-blank: “It was subsequently reported that you suffered [from] bulimia. Is that true?”

“Yes, I did,” she replied. “I had bulimia for a number of years. And that's like a secret disease. You inflict it upon yourself because your self-esteem is at a low ebb, and you don't think you're worthy or valuable. You fill your stomach up four or five times a day—some do it more—and it gives you a feeling of comfort. It's like having a pair of arms around you, but it's temporarily, temporary. Then you're disgusted at the bloatedness of your stomach, and then you bring it all up again.”

Her raw, candid confession sent shockwaves through the world at the time—eating disorders were rarely talked about openly. To have a global superstar do so, on such a stage, challenged a major societal stigma.

And Di did have to pay dearly for her honesty about everything.