On 20 Dec 2013, at its 68th session, the United Nations General Assembly (UNGA) proclaimed 3 March – the day of signature of the Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species of Wild Fauna and Flora (CITES) in 1973 – as UN World Wildlife Day to celebrate and raise awareness of the world’s wild animals and plants.

World Wildlife Day is an opportunity to celebrate the many beautiful and varied forms of wild fauna and flora and to raise awareness of the multitude of benefits that their conservation provides to people.

At the same time, the Day reminds us of the urgent need to step up the fight against wildlife crime and human-induced reduction of species, which have wide-ranging economic, environmental and social impacts. Given these various negative effects, SDG 15 focuses on halting biodiversity loss.

Continued loss of species, habitats and ecosystems also threaten all life on Earth, including us. People everywhere rely on wildlife and biodiversity-based resources to meet all our needs, from food to fuel, medicines, housing, and clothing.

Millions of people also rely on nature as the source of their livelihoods and economic opportunities.

World Wildlife Day will be celebrated in 2022 under the theme "Recovering key species for ecosystem restoration", as a way to draw attention to the conservation status of some of the most critically endangered species of wild fauna and flora and to drive discussions towards imagining and implementing solutions to conserve them.

This aligns with UN SDG's 1, 2, 12, 13, 14 and 15, and their wide-ranging commitments to alleviating poverty, ensuring sustainable use of resources, and conserving life land.

Over 8,400 species of wild fauna and flora are critically endangered, while close to 30,000 more are understood to be endangered or vulnerable. Based on these estimates, it is suggested that over a million species are threatened with extinction.

World Wildlife Day '22 attempts to drive the debate towards the imperative need to reverse the fate of the most critically endangered species, to support the restoration
of their habitats and ecosystems and to promote their sustainable use by humanity.

Let's take a pledge to save our planet.

The time to act is now!