Most often people are asked to leave their workplace over inefficiency or mismanagement. However, a former assistant professor of English at St Xavier’s University, Kolkata has alleged that she was forced to quit her position over her Instagram images.

The academic is now planning to move the Calcutta high court demanding an apology and monetary compensation over her firing in October 2021. She also alleges that the process by which she was forced to quit the institute amounts to sexual harassment and deliberate character assassination.

The university has, however, refuted all the allegations and said that the assistant professor resigned voluntarily.

The 30-year-old, an alumna of St Xavier’s College, Kolkata, and Jadavpur University, joined SXU as an assistant professor in English on 9 August 2021.

She alleges that on 7 October 2021, she received a call from the university asking her to meet the vice-chancellor. As per her police complaint, the 30-year-old was then informed that the university had received a written complaint from a first-year male undergraduate student’s father, saying that he had found his son looking at pictures of her on Instagram, which were ‘objectionable’ and ‘bordered on nudity’.

In the images concerned, the teacher could be seen in swimwear and gym wear. 

The professor adds that she was asked to submit a report and tender a letter of apology, to which she obliged. But, according to her, without even reading the letter, the vice-chancellor said the committee had unanimously recommended her removal. 

The assistant professor, who has a PhD from two European universities, in her police complaint alleges that the entire removal process seemed like a witch hunt to her.

She states that the images in question were uploaded as stories — a feature that makes photos disappear after 24 hours. She claims that she does not know how the images got leaked. She added that the images in question were taken in June 2021, nearly two months before joining SXU.

The university has also slapped a defamation case worth Rs 99 crore on her.

Netizens, including ex-students of the institute, have taken to social media to support her.

A slap on a renowned educational institute?