Child Protection International says that in a year of Taliban rule in Afghanistan, girls' lives have been "broken". According to the institute's new report, girls are also ostracized from society and left to starve. Also, 26% of girls compared to 16% of boys have symptoms of depression.

Due to the economic crisis, severe drought and restrictions imposed by the Taliban, 97% of families cannot provide enough food for their children. Almost 80% of children said that they slept hungry in the last 30 days. It has been reported that the number of girls who went to bed hungry is twice that of boys.
"Lack of food has devastating consequences on children's health and threatens their future." Nine out of 10 girls said their meals had decreased in the past year.
According to the report of this institute, Afghan girls do not have enough energy to study, play and work due to poverty and hunger.

The economic crisis has serious risks on the mental health of girls. The report of the Child Protection Institute shows that 26% of girls have symptoms of depression compared to 16% of boys. The report adds: "27 percent of girls also have symptoms of anxiety compared to 18 percent of boys."
Some girls have told this institution that they have trouble sleeping due to worry and bad dreams. They also said they were deprived of many activities that used to make them happy, such as spending time with relatives and friends, going to parks and shopping.

More than 45% of girls compared to 20% of boys consider economic challenges, Taliban ban and society's attitudes as the main obstacles to education.
Bad economic situation has increased child marriage. Among the children who were asked to marry last year to improve the family's financial situation, 88% were girls.
"Life is dire for children in Afghanistan. Children go to bed hungry. They are tired and lethargic, they can't play and study like they used to."
"Girls bear the brunt of the situation. They miss more meals, suffer from isolation and emotional distress, and while boys go to school, girls stay at home.