Like in the days of Shearer when the Gallagher End danced to the tunes of the great center-forward, the historic St. James' Park was bouncing again. Since the arrival of Eddie Howe, Newcastle has been on the up, producing performances that have got the fans believing again. The Geordies again fought gallantly in a fierce battle between them and the champions of the land, Manchester City. 
After going a goal down in the early minutes of the first half, Newcastle paved a comeback, reminiscent of the golden days. Their whizkid, Saint-Maximin, got the Gallager End roaring, whereas Almiron got the Geordies believing again with his equalizer. Guimaraes got the crowd going, whereas Wilson sent the Geordies to wonderland with the second. And Tripper's venomous free-kick was the perfect third to send St. James's Park into raptures. Although they surrendered their lead to a strong City side, Eddie Howe will be proud of his team's performance. If Newcastle performs at the same level week in and week out, a top-six finish is certainly not out of the cards.
It was a similar story in the warm sunshine in the city of Leeds. Elland Road was hostile and louder than ever as they welcomed their old foes, Chelsea, to their battleground. The Blues, who were the favorites going into the clash, suffered a humbling defeat at Yorkshire.
The victory over Chelsea is Leeds's first since December 2002. Leeds has started the season strongly, and this victory was the icing on the cake. Jessie was on point with his game plan, and his players never let Chelsea settle. The first goal was a reward for their sheer pressing, as Mendy's error led to the goal for Aaronson. The attacking trio of Harrison, Rodrigo, and Aaronson had the Chelsea backline on its toes for the entire game. Whereas new signing Adams bossed and owned the Chelsea midfield.
Having lost two of their talisman, Raphina, and Philips, in the summer, Leeds have used the funds acquired wisely. Investing in new talents like Roca, Aaronson, and Adams is starting to bear fruit. 
Image Credit: Newcastle, Leeds United