Celebrations greeted Thursday’s co-ordinated announcement by the NSW and Victorian governments that they will invest $6 billion and $9 billion, respectively, to provide 30 hours a week of play-based learning for all children in the 12 months prior to primary school. It’s a promising indication of growing public and political support for valuing our children and the voices of women and families.

There is clear evidence that quality early childhood education and care benefit children not only at the time they attend but is likely to have an enduring life-long impact.

Investment in children is worth it
This investment in resourcing children with opportunities for play-based early childhood education is likely to have positive impacts on children’s learning and development. The benefits include:

social and emotional well-being
cognitive development
communication and language development
physical development.
This week’s announcements are extremely important for the nation’s children as 2022 data from the Australian Early Development Census (AEDC) show that 21% of children in NSW and 19% in Victoria are assessed as “vulnerable” in at least one area of development when they start school.

But beware ‘schoolification’
Australia’s mandatory national curriculum framework, the Early Years Learning Framework (EYLF), states:

“Play-based learning is a context for learning through which children organise and make sense of their social worlds, as they engage actively with people, objects, and representations.”

Within the framework there is:

“a specific emphasis on play-based learning [that] recognises the importance of communication and language (including early literacy and numeracy) and social and emotional development”.

Children have a right to play. Care needs to be taken to ensure this right is upheld with the rollout of 30 hours a week of early childhood education.

Early childhood educators need to be fully versed in the power of play. They will have to take care to ensure this “play-based” approach does not result in “schoolification” of our early childhood programs. It will be essential to assure parents of the importance and value of play.

Read more: https://theconversation.com/a-15-billion-promise-of-universal-access-to-preschool-is-this-the-game-changer-for-aussie-kids-185211