The beaming Crystal Palace are all set to face Aston Villa at Selhurst Park in gameweek three of the English Premier League. Aston Villa are on the back of a victory whereas a draw seemed like a win for Crystal Palace. 

In their previous game, Crystal Palace were almost clinching three points from the mighty Reds after scoring the goal in the 18th minute and holding it on till the 72nd minute. However, the team did not crumble under pressure in the later minutes to get away with the point from Anfield. 

On the other hand, Aston Villa registered the first win of the campaign with a win over Everton. Aston Villa had a two-goal lead by the 83rd minute but the own goal in the 87th minute made them fear the final moments. However, they took home all three points. 

Crystal Palace vs Aston Villa Match Details

 Match: Crystal Palace vs Aston Villa 

Date and Time: 20th August, 7:30 PM IST

Venue: Selhurst Park

Crystal Palace vs Aston Villa Probable Playing XI

Crystal Palace:
Vincente Guaita; Nathaniel Clyne, Joachim Andersen, Marc Guehi, Tyrick Mitchell; Schlupp, Cheick Doucoure, Eberechi Eze; Jordan Ayew, Jean Phillipe Mateta, Wilfried Zaha

Aston Villa: 
Emiliano Martinez; Matty Cash, Diego Carlos, Tyrone Mings, Lucas Digne; Boubacar Kamara, John McGinn, Jacob Ramsey; Leon Bailey, Ollie Watkins, Phil Coutinho

Crystal Palace vs Aston Villa Probable Winners

Crystal Palace were able to get away against Liverpool with a point. The Eagles gave a tough competition to the Reds but could not take home all three points. On the other hand, Aston Villa registered three points against Everton despite the nerve-wracking moments. We predict the game to end in a draw on Saturday. 

Predictions: Crystal Palace 1-1 Aston Villa

 Crystal Palace vs Aston Villa Live Stream

The Crystal Palace vs Aston Villa game is available on the Disney+Hotstar application and Star Sports Network. Sky Sports Network will telecast the game for the residents in the UK. 

(Image Credits: AVFCOfficial)