At least 470,000 unique identity numbers (UIDs) issued by India’s 13-year-old national identity database, Aadhaar, over nine years were fraudulent. The system is susceptible to being hacked or otherwise undermined, and its own recent warnings of misuse reveal its vulnerabilities. About 30 million of the poorest Indians have lost access to government ration over the last few years.


These findings sum up the result of a new study by the government’s own auditor, various studies and stories by researchers (here, here and here) and journalists (here, here and here) over the past 12 years, and a now-withdrawn warning issued in May by the Unique Identification Authority of India (UIDAI), Aadhaar’s promoter and regulator.


Now issued to 1.3 billion Indians, Aadhaar cannot verify if any of the holders of its unique identification numbers (UIDs) is actually “resident” in this country; and at least 145 duplicate UIDs were generated each day over nine years, according to the first-ever audit of its operations in April 2022 by the Comptroller and Auditor General of India (CAG).


The CAG report was the first-ever audit of Aadhaar since the first UID number was launched by the then Prime Minister Manmohan Singh in September 2010 marking the “beginning of a big effort for the welfare of the common man”.


The only other two official comments on its workings came in 2011 from a parliamentary standing committee; and in 2015 and 2018 from the Supreme Court when it was hearing cases related to Aadhaar.


Aadhaar’s vulnerabilities first came to recent attention in May, when UIDAI’s Bengaluru regional office issued an advisory cautioning Aadhaar holders against sharing their photocopies and details with “unlicensed private entities'”. The advisory was withdrawn within 48 hours.


Article 14 sought comment from the UIDAI on the controversy, the CAG’s observations and reports of misuse, submitting a detailed questionnaire over email and calling its Bengaluru regional office. There were no responses. We will update this story if they do.

Read more - https://article-14.com/post/vulnerable-to-frauds-fakes-breaches-why-govt-auditor-served-a-warning-to-aadhaar--62be6d1a9e0a6