A true fan of melody queen – Lucknow’s famous Sharma Ji Tea Stall's everlasting association with India’s legendary singer Lata Mangeshkar

Over the years, ‘Sharma Ji Tea Stall’ has become an important landmark in Lucknow and is in the must visit list for the tourists visiting the city of Nawabs. Even the Uttar Pradesh Tourism Department endorses it as the city’s one of the important landmarks.  

Late Om Prakash of ‘Sharma Ji Tea Stall’ was the one who introduced ‘Bun Maska’ to the city of Nawabs. He made the city, famous for kebabs and Mughlai food, fall in love with bun stuffed with homemade butter – bun maska.

Thanks to him, bun maska has become a famous vegetarian tea time snack for Lucknowies.

Anyone visiting Lucknow’s ‘Sharma Ji Tea Stall’ at Lalbagh, adjoining Hazratganj – the downtown of Lucknow – for a tea, samosa or bun maska, could easily spot photographs of late Om Prakash Sharma sharing a space with a framed picture of melody queen Lata Mangeshkar in her late twenties.

Since 1962, legendary singer Lata Mangeshkar’s picture has been embellishing the ‘Sharma Ji Tea Stall’.

“My father was a big fan of Lata Mangeshkar ji. In 1962, he especially went to Mumbai, then Bombay, to meet her. At that time, having a personal camera was not a common thing, so he asked Lata ji for her picture and she presented him with her small size photograph. Since then, the photograph is there in the shop,” says late Om Prakash's younger son Deepak from Lucknow. “When our father was alive, Lata ji visited Lucknow for a musical concert and my father didn’t miss the opportunity of watching her live performance.”  
“Lata ji gave our father a small size photograph and later he made a bigger copy of it. When our father expired in 2009, we placed his photographs next to Lata ji,” says Deepak. “The first thing we do in the morning after opening the shop is to bow our heads in front of both photographs – our late father and Lata ji’s.”

“The demise of a legendary singer is a great loss for our family. My father was a great fan of hers and our association with Lata Mangeshkar ji is everlasting,” adds Deepak.