In a press briefing in Geneva, the UNICEF spokesperson James Elder said on Tuesday that the effect of the Ukraine war is utterly shocking on the nation’s children as “every single minute, 55 children have fled their country”. In other words, a “Ukrainian child has become a refugee almost every single second since the start of the war” and half of the 3 million who have escaped Ukraine are children.

But there are millions of children who are left behind in Ukraine who have been braving Russian assaults. Among them there are around 100,000 orphans stranded in 700 children’s homes, according to Save the Children, an international NGO. Apparently, half of these children are disabled.

According to some estimates, over 100 children have succumbed to Russian bombs so far, including some newborns and pregnant women at a maternity hospital in Mariupol on March 9. UNICEF observers who visited a hospital in Lviv in western Ukraine found paediatricians busy treating 60 children badly wounded in the war. 

Humanitarian workers now fear that many child traffickers are targeting orphans or children estranged from their parents. Ylva Johansson, the E.U. Commissioner for Home Affairs, warned about “criminals taking orphans from orphanages” in Ukraine, crossing the border pretending to be their relatives and surreptitiously trafficking the children.

Infants who had to leave their home in a hurry are puzzled and have failed to come to terms yet. According to a report in the Washington Post, many of these kids were separated from their fathers, who must stay behind to defend the country. Some of the mothers told the children that they were leaving for a vacation, but couldn’t explain properly why their dads couldn’t travel with them. Kids must have realised within hours that it is not going to be a happy journey which got interrupted by long waits in the cold without enough food and drinks.     

READ MORE: 

https://www.unicef.org/press-releases/particularly-shocking-every-single-minute-55-children-have-fled-their-country

https://www.washingtonpost.com/world/interactive/2022/ukraine-war-children-refugees/

https://www.forbes.com/sites/ewelinaochab/2022/03/14/putins-war-on-ukrainian-children/?sh=6840366a7c02