What is type 2 diabetes?

Insulin is a hormone that the pancreas produces. If you have type 2 diabetes, your body’s cells do not correctly respond to insulin. Your pancreas then produces additional insulin as a response.

This causes your blood sugar to rise, which can cause diabetes. If not managed well, high levels of blood sugar can cause serious health problems including:

1 kidney disease
2 heart disease
3 vision loss

Type 2 diabetes is more likely to develop in people over age 45 , according to the National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases (NIDDK), but in recent years, more young adults, teens, and children have been diagnosed with the condition.

According to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), over 37 million people in the United States have diabetes. Between 90 and 95 percent of those individuals have type 2 diabetes.

Diabetes can cause serious health complications if it’s not regularly monitored and treated. Lifestyle changes can make a big difference in helping manage your blood glucose levels.

Signs and symptoms - 

Type 2 diabetes symptoms develop slowly, sometimes over several years. That’s why it’s important to be familiar with the signs and symptoms of diabetes and to have your doctor regularly order blood sugar testing.

Here are some of the most common signs and symptoms of type 2 diabetes, according to the American Diabetes Association (ADA):

1 having to get up several times during the night to pee (urinate)
2 being constantly thirsty
3 always feeling hungry
4 your vision is blurry
5 you feel numbness or a tingling sensation in your hands or feet
6 always feeling exhausted or overly tired
7 have unusually dry skin
8 any cuts, scrapes, or sores on the skin take a long time to heal

Complications - 

1 Skin conditions -

Diabetes that’s not managed well can cause an increased risk of bacterial and fungal skin infections.

Diabetes-related complications can cause one or more of the following skin symptoms:

1 pain
2 itchiness
3 rashes, blisters, or boils
4 styes on your eyelids
5 inflamed hair follicles

Sources - https://www.healthline.com/health/type-2-diabetes/complications-uncontrolled-diabetes