By BestMediaInfo Bureau 

A recent ad promoting fragrance brand Layer’r Shot has caused an uproar for being ‘misogynistic and promoting rape culture’. Even after the brand issued a public apology for airing the ads people have not stopped targeting the brand, because as per the netizens a simple apology can’t make good the damage they’ve done and it requires strong action.

The ad had created so much furore that it even made the Information and Broadcasting Ministry sit up and take notice. The Ministry had issued a notice to pull down the ads from all digital platforms days after it went live.

However, this alone cannot be enough to set a precedent, as per the advertising industry. Therefore, BestMediaInfo.com reached out to experts to know their views and opinions on the damage caused by the ads, a just punishment for the same, and also the way ahead for the industry as a whole to ensure such ‘mistakes’ don’t happen again. 

Ritu Sharda, Chief Creative Officer at Ogilvy, said, “The brand should be penalised in the most severe way. Not just by pulling down the ad but by holding every stakeholder accountable. This is not a joke. It’s a serious offence. It needs to be made an example of. The severity of the punishment is my only hope.” 

According to Pallavi Chakravarti, Creative Head, West, DDB Mudra Group, when an abomination like the Layer Shot campaign gets made, it shows us that not one person across all these functions thought that there was anything wrong with this. "Or if they did, didn't raise enough of a stink to stop it from seeing the light of day."

"So, pulling the ads off air is really the least anyone can do in a situation like this. I can go on and on about appropriate penalties, but the truth is, what is that going to achieve? For instance, I may believe that public flagellation of all parties involved is a fitting punishment - but that's not going to happen, right? There is no law for this kind of thing," Chakravarti said.

Read the full story here:- https://bestmediainfo.com/2022/06/stronger-action-against-layer-r-shot-is-required-says-the-advertising-industry