Electric Vehicle Policy for UT Chandigarh notified - Chandigarh to be made a Model EV City
Chandigarh: The Hon'ble Administrator, UT Chandigarh has approved the "Electric Vehicle Policy, 2022" in order to make Chandigarh a Model EV City' by achieving one of the highest penetration of zero emission vehicles (ZEV)
amongst all Indian cities by the end of the Policy period of five years. The policy
will come into force with immediate effect.
The Chandigarh Electric Vehicle Policy has the provision to incentivise
the adoption of all vehicle categories such as e-Bicycles, e-2 wheelers, e Carts, e-Autos, e-Goods Carrier (L5N and N1), e-4 wheelers (personal and
commercial) which is over & above FAME-ll policy incentives provided by Govt.
of India and will be applicable for only those Electric Vehicles which will be
purchased and registered in Chandigarh. 
In addition to this, a special Early Bird Incentive is also to be given to the vehicles purchased and registered in the first year of the policy period.
Dharam Pal, Adviser to the Administrator, UT, Chandigarh, informed
that various incentive provisions has been made in the policy in order to
encourage people to move towards e vehicle from the conventional vehicle in
order to have lesser carbon foot print and make Chandigarh carbon neutral at
the earliest.
Debendra Dalai, Secretary, Science & Technology informed that
incentive shall be provided directly to the owners of the vehicle purchased and
registered in UT, Chandigarh. 
The incentive cases shall be processed offline for
the time being. The detailed standard operating process shall be notified shortly
for processing of the incentive cases. It was further informed that the public have to pay @Rs.8/- per unit for slow/medium charging, Rs. 10/- per unit for
fast charging and Rs.11/- per unit for battery swapping including all taxes.
The detailed Notification is available on official website of the department: solar.chd.gov.in under News & Updates Section as well as on Chandigarh Administration's website: chandigarh.gov.in.