As every historian knows, the frame you use to analyse the past affects the stories you tell about that past. Time is foremost among those frames.

Richard Flanagan wrote last month that the 2022 federal election result marked the end of the Howard Era. By that he meant the end of a pernicious kind of politics where institutions were not only hollowed out, but rubbished.

Wind the clock back further, and you start to see echoes of an earlier era, specifically one Labor governments presided over.

Once again, we are in the grip of an energy crisis. Russia’s invasion of Ukraine is doing what events in the Middle East did in the 1970s.

The 1973 oil crisis forced massive inflation upon the Whitlam government. By 1975 inflation was 15% and Australia was teetering on the edge of recession.

Unemployment, previously within a narrow band of 1-3%, jumped above 3% and then above 4% where it stayed for half a century.

Governing in crisis
In 1983 the Hawke Labor government came to office with inflation still at 11.5%, unemployment at 10.3% and Australia in the middle of a long-lasting recession.
Hawke’s treasurer Paul Keating would later say about his early period as treasurer that there was no obvious place to look for an answer to the economy’s problems.

This was especially so at a time when the West was embracing economic liberalism and turning decisions over to markets rather than governments.

But the Hawke government had one critical instrument at its disposal: centralised wage fixation.

Finding the bargain
Keating as a treasurer, and as a politician, understood bargains. You don’t get big change without giving something away.

The series of prices and incomes Accords that began in 1983 pulled back wage-driven inflation by a trade-off: workers would forgo wage rises in exchange for social programs and better retirement incomes.

That’s how modern superannuation began.
Today, inflation is 5.1% – hardly the stuff of 1973 or 1983, but way beyond the 1-2% we have had for most of the last decade.

Read more - https://theconversation.com/hawkes-special-skill-was-levelling-with-the-australian-people-its-albaneses-only-option-184305