By Srinand Jha

New Delhi: While street protests against the Central Government's new recruitment policy for the defence forces that began yesterday in Bihar are not showing signs of abating, the agitation has been having a ripple effect in states including Uttar Pradesh, Rajasthan and Haryana. A related question: Why has Bihar mostly been at the forefront of citizen protests and mass movements?

The Bihari Psyche

It was at Champaran in Bihar where Mahatma Gandhi launched his first successful struggle against the then British rulers in 1918. Years later, Jayaprakash Narain or JP's call for a "Total Revolution" triggered off a massive and nationwide upsurge against the Indira Gandhi government in the seventies. 

A million other small mutinies have - and are continuing - to erupt in a soil rich with revolutionary flavour: From the bloody caste wars of the private armies to the pro and anti-Mandal agitations of the nineties to recent demonstrations against the Union government's policies on recruitment to the Railways or the defence forces. 

At the drop of a hat have Bihari youth been blocking trains by squatting on tracks -  or joining the "mashaal"(torch) march to protest the real or perceived atrocities of the authorities. 

Bihar has retained its status as the melting pot of diametrically opposed ideologies and persuasions: From socialism to communism to Naxalism or the Hindutva - while the popularity of the political Robinhoods has also remained undiminished. 

Any journalist who has spent a fair amount of time in Patna would hardly have missed such scenes: Of chappals, stones or plastic chairs being thrown at the stage of a public meeting. 

"The Bihari is usually of a no-nonsense variety: Spontaneous and reactive; articulate and firm of political beliefs - while being reverent and irreverent of authority at the same time", senior Patna-based scribe Ajay Kumar said. The question, however, remains: What explains the Bihari psyche?

Read the full story here:- https://www.newsdrum.in/columns/agnipath-scheme-why-do-biharis-agitate-45851.html