‘Operation LEGHORN’ and the
Battle of the Namka Chucontinues...
On the ground, the deployment pattern ordered was non-tactical, 
with the battalions of the brigade strung out along the Namka Chu, a 
small mountain river, instead of on the defensible high ground of the 
top of the high mountain ridge behind them. There were no coordinated defences as each of the locations was isolated. Instead of being asked to hold a proper brigade defended sector on tactically 
suitable ground, with a brigade frontage of about 3 km, the brigade was 
thinly spread in small company or smaller localities across about 16 to 
17 km. The localities were not fully prepared, as there was not enough 
time, and did not have any barbed wire or anti-personnel mines. 
There was not enough food, ammunition, not even proper warm clothing for 
the freezing weather, practically no artillery fire support, and no medical 
cover. There was no depth to the ‘defence’, and there were no lay-back positions for a fighting withdrawal if needed. It was not a ‘brigade defended sector’, that is meant to be composed of a number of ‘battalion defended areas’, each comprising various ‘company defended localities’. Instead it was a long thin line of company localities and even platoon localities. The only artillery fire support for the entire front was from the two 75 mm para-field guns with just 421 rounds, and from only four 4.2-inch mortars with a total availability only 450 bombs. 
Each man had his ‘pouch ammunition’ scale for his personal weapon (50 rounds of ammunition) and two grenades only. There were no reserves of ammunition. In such a situation 7 Infantry Brigade was capable of fighting for only half an 
hour, and of maintaining itself in that position for only about three to 
four days at very hard scales of rations. One of the units, 1st/9th Gorkha Rifles, which had hurriedly been made to march up from the Assam valley, was in cotton summer uniforms and had already begun to suffer casualties from the severe cold of October at those heights.
To be continued....