1. Inside the former homes of entertainment icons
Fans of Tinseltown’s rich and famous, rejoice! We’ve brought together some of the most amazing celebrity pads, all steeped in cinematic history. From Marilyn Monroe to James Dean, Judy Garland and Liberace, discover the palatial properties that some of the most beloved Silver Screen stars once called home...

2. Liberace’s secret West Hollywood townhouse
American pianist, singer and actor, Liberace, was known and loved for his flamboyant costumes and trademark candelabras, which he would place on top of his piano before a performance. The one-of-a-kind showman even had a movie made about his life, Behind the Candelabra, which starred Michael Douglas, Matt Damon and Rob Lowe, proving that his musical legacy is still enduring. Let's take a look at the musician's secret West Hollywood townhouse...

3. Inside the former homes of entertainment icons
Fans of Tinseltown’s rich and famous, rejoice! We’ve brought together some of the most amazing celebrity pads, all steeped in cinematic history. From Marilyn Monroe to James Dean, Judy Garland and Liberace, discover the palatial properties that some of the most beloved Silver Screen stars once called home...

4. Liberace’s secret West Hollywood townhouse
American pianist, singer and actor, Liberace, was known and loved for his flamboyant costumes and trademark candelabras, which he would place on top of his piano before a performance. The one-of-a-kind showman even had a movie made about his life, Behind the Candelabra, which starred Michael Douglas, Matt Damon and Rob Lowe, proving that his musical legacy is still enduring. Let's take a look at the musician's secret West Hollywood townhouse...

5. Liberace’s secret West Hollywood townhouse
Amazingly, the property was built by MGM Studios in 1937 and is part of The Shoreham, a private cluster of 15 apartments and townhouses that were designed to house the film company's prized stars. The Regency-inspired estate is set behind iron gates and is surrounded by tranquil gardens and koi ponds, just above Sunset Boulevard.