JD School of Design powered by JD Institute of Fashion Technology, Goa conducted its first graduation ceremony for the passing out batch who belong to the domain of fashion design as well as interior design. 
During the grand ceremony, the students received the certifications from the dignitaries of the institutes as they are venturing out in the professional world. Graduation day is an opportunity for the passing out batch to relive their college days and celebrate all their achievements, energies, and hard work that went into their success journey. 
While addressing the students on their special day, Director-South Sandra Agnes D’Souza congratulated them for their success and said, “Today we are very proud that 33 students are graduating from JD, Goa campus. You all are a part of JD Family and we wish you come back to us, even if you are out of college. JD Institute believes that we need to be connected to the industry and whenever we start a new project, a new assignment, or an initiative we want you to be a part of the process as it can help all of us to grow. We also invite you to come and do your projects inside the college free of cost”. 
“We celebrated the first graduation ceremony and cheered our Jediiians for their achievements. It is a day we all have been waiting for since the design enthusiasts stepped in college. Witnessing them succeed in each phase has filled us with immense pride. As they are ready to enter the world with all the knowledge they gained from their mentors and the institutional programs, I would like to congratulate them for their achievement. The success of our students substantiates the quality education that the institute provides. We hope that our jediiians venture out in the field of design with creativity and explore new dimensions of the domain.” Mr Nealesh Dalal, Managing Trustee- JD Educational Trust.
The graduation ceremony welcomed 30 graduates of this year from the institute. JD School of Designs affiliated to Goa University and provides multiple new age courses that reinvigorates the field of Design, Media and Art.