As per BBC Sport, Paris Saint-Germain have stepped up their efforts to sign Kylian Mbappe. The French club is ready to offer the youngster a massive signing-on bonus to tempt him to remain in Paris. 

Kylian Mbappe is yet to decide his future. The striker made it clear that he would not rule out extending his contract with Paris Saint-Germain. The 23-year-old added that the club has introduced "new elements" to make him extend his contract. 

According to the latest report, Paris Saint-Germain were ready to pay the Frenchman a signing bonus of €125 million if he had decided to stay. But they have now pumped it up to €150 million! 

To add to this, PSG could also offer the youngster the captain's armband if he decides to remain at the club next season. Hence the report says that these "new elements" are tempting the striker to change his mind about going to Real Madrid. 

Kylian Mbappe's parents are currently representing the striker in negotiations. But there is even a disagreement between them as per reports. Nevertheless, only Real Madrid and Paris Saint-Germain will be involved in the tussle for the youngster. 

Real Madrid are reportedly relaxed about the situation. The Spanish giants are positive that they will secure the signing of Kylian Mbappe. The club has also reportedly agreed to a financial package with the French international a few months ago.





What should PSG do if they lose out on Mbappe?

If Paris Saint-Germain loses out on Kylian Mbappe, it would be a big blow to the club. The 23-year-old has been the club's top scorer this season. Hence replacing him with the right striker will be a tough decision. 

In case this happens, the French club could go all-out for Robert Lewandowski. The Bayern Munich striker is looking to leave in the summer and Paris could be a great destination for him. Cristiano Ronaldo is another option that PSG could consider as every football fan wants to see Ronaldo and Messi playing together before they eventually retire in a few years. 