The Muslim Brotherhood is believed to play a continuous and significant role in terror funding in Europe, owing to its influence in the Islamic community through its humanitarian efforts. First and foremost, they engage in a great deal of humanitarian work, gain sympathy, collect money by showcasing their social work and then they then use the same money to sponsor terrorism throughout Europe. Austria has already expelled the Muslim Brotherhood from the country, and Germany is following suit. France is also charging against brotherhood affiliates, accusing them of spreading radicalism and extremism. Nathalie Goule, a French politician, targeted the Islamic Relief organisation in particular, alleging that it had been involved in terrorist financing, backed the Hamas organisation in Palestine, and that its officials had been responsible for disseminating anti-Semitic comments on social media. The development of the Muslim Brotherhood in Europe helped undermine the integration of Muslims with the local cultures keeping the community continuously under watch as the suspicions have increased in recent years. The problem has extended further to using their financial resources to promote extremism and make use of European countries as a launchpad for their extremist activities in the world.

Home grown outfits like Popular Front of India (PFI) are following the same methodology and walking the same path as that of Muslim Brotherhood. PFI masks themselves behind the curtain of social service although their true intentions lies elsewhere. PFI’s true face gets exposed intermittently owing to their involvement in violent activities.

The Muslim brotherhood have faced financial accusations from Saudi Arabia and other associated countries as well from Europen countries, who have intensified efforts and mechanisms to curb the outflow of finances from their citizens, mainly through online transactions. Saudi Arabia, in particular, has barred the payment of Zakat through cash which is believed to be the largest source of financing to organisations like the Muslim Brotherhood. PFI can rightly be called as Indian version of MB. Similar steps are therefore needed to be followed in India if India wants to avoid a similar fate like that of Egypt and France. 
