As flu season progresses, so does the chorus of advice, professional and otherwise, to drink plenty of fluids and take fever-reducing medications, like acetaminophen, ibuprofen or aspirin.

These recommendations, well-intentioned and firmly entrenched, offer comfort to those sidelined with fever, flu or vaccine side effects. But you may be surprised to learn the science supporting these recommendations is speculative at best, harmful at worst and comes with caveats.

I am an exercise physiologist who specializes in studying how the body regulates fluids and temperature. And based on a wide body of evidence, I can tell you that increased fluid intake and taking fever reducers, whether aspirin, acetaminophen or ibuprofen, may not always help in your recovery. In fact, in some cases, it could be harmful.

There’s a reason why people say fevers should be lowered when sick or after a vaccine. Both aspirin and acetaminophen, such as Tylenol, reduce fever, headaches and muscle aches. But at the same time, seminal and newer studies, including broad meta-analysis studies, show that these medications may weaken the immune response to infection or have unwanted side effects.

What is a fever?
First, some background: Fevers are a regulated increase in core body temperature as a response to unwanted microbial invaders. The more severe the infection, the higher the fever.

Having a fever is not all bad; it’s how the body has evolved to recuperate from an infection. For many species, fevers are advantageous and beneficial for survival.

But fever comes with a cost. A body temperature that’s too high can be deadly. For every increase of 1.8 degrees Fahrenheit, metabolism goes up 10%; the body begins to burn more calories than normal, temperature continues to rise and the body releases hormones to keep fever under control.

Read more@ The Conversation: https://theconversation.com/why-taking-fever-reducing-meds-and-drinking-fluids-may-not-be-the-best-way-to-treat-flu-and-fever-173134

Image Credits: https://www.gettyimages.com/detail/photo/sick-woman-taking-her-temperature-royalty-free-image/88689538?adppopup=true