From the sky, the deep, blue waters of a large, shimmering lake dotted with green rings and islands is Manipur’s best-identifiable landmark. On the ground, it is Manipur’s main source of fish and its biggest tourist attraction, visited by locals and outsiders alike. 


This is Loktak, the “mirror of Manipur”, the largest freshwater lake in northeastern India: a 287-sq-km body of water unique in this part of the world for its floating, spongy masses of vegetation and other organic matter. Some of this spongy matter, about 10-ft thick, with a third above water, is used to craft floating islands or phumdi, many of which have one to three homes on them, and some are shaped into rings or athaphum, used as fishing coves. 


People have lived on Loktak for centuries, the earliest written description provided 101 years ago by British zoologist Nelson Annandale and Indian zoologist S L Hora. The indigenous athaphum is Loktak’s main fishing technique, floating masses of vegetation the shape and size of ponds to trap fish and harvest them one or twice a month using nets. 


The homes on the phumdi are made of bamboo, cane and straw and are called phumsang. The practice of living in phumsang has dwindled since an eviction drive a decade ago, but about 200 fishing families still live on them, over half of them in a floating village called Champhu Khangpok, home to more than 300 people, and others in small, isolated phumdi. 


For the past three-four years, about 40 phumsang have become homestays, popular with Indian and foreign tourists. They charge up to Rs 4,000 a day, and have, locals said, boosted incomes. 


However, after 18 July 2022, anxiety gripped lake area’s traditional inhabitants, almost all fisherfolk, as the Loktak Development Authority (LDA), the designated institution for the conservation of Loktak, issued a notice, giving people concerned 15 days to remove all athaphum and homestays on phumdi. 


Read more - https://article-14.com/post/a-16-year-old-law-with-military-powers-threatens-homes-livelihoods-of-fisherfolk-on-manipur-s-loktak-lake-62f5a6ed2f378