Laleh Osmany was born in 1992 in Herat. She received her primary education in this city. Herat has a more traditional and religious atmosphere than some other provinces in Afghanistan. The deprivation of women was constantly afflicting him, because she  saw that "these deprivations and restrictions are being fed to the people in the name of religion." The motivation for researching the Shari'a was created in his mind.

Ms. Osmany has continued her higher education in the Faculty of Sharia at Herat University. Her scientific findings motivated her to fight more for women. "When she entered the university and researched, one of the things that was very interesting to her was that in addition to the fact that the identity of women in Islam was not denied and it was not commanded to be a Muharram, the independent identity of women was also defended. We have a surah in the name of a woman named Hazrat Maryam.

The campaign "#WhereIsMyName" In three years, She was able to bring a number of the most well-known civil, artistic and political figures with him and finally make a change in the law. Optional, approved.

When we look at history, we see that some influential movements and currents started with a small accident. Where is my hashtag campaign sparked by such an accident?

Now that the inclusion of the mother's name in the children's identity card is included in the law - optionally - it seems that the three-year efforts of Laleh Osmany and her teammates have paid off.
Although the inclusion of the mother's name in the identity cards of Afghan citizens has been widely welcomed in the Afghan media, it seems that there are many enemies and opponents in the traditional Afghan society.

Many people, especially rural Afghans, find it disgraceful to mention the names of female family members. Apparently, this sensitivity also led the Afghan government to find a way to keep both sides satisfied. "Optional" inclusion of the mother's name in the birth certificate was therefore finally accepted in law.