After a whole bunch of leaks, Ubisoft has officially unveiled the next major installment in the Assassin’s Creed franchise. The next game in the franchise will be Assassin’s Creed:Mirage , with players taking control of Basim Ibn Ishaq. A master assassin in Valhalla, Mirage takes place years before Valhalla and Basim is in fact a young thief going around the colourful city streets of Baghdad. 
Taking place 20 years before Valhalla, the game will focus on Basim's initiation and his journey into the Assassin order. Going back to the formula of the originals, Mirage will be a more linear action adventure game with a strong focus on stealth set in a sprawling urban environment.
To accompany this return to form, Mirage features all-new parkour animation, including the new Pole Vault move and returning favourites like the corner swing. 
Featuring a smoother parkour than before, this will help him traverse the streets and archer-riddled rooftops of Baghdad's four main districts, including the industrial Karkh and the lush gardens of the Round City.
Assassin's Creed Unity's black box missions are back too, which will give Mirage some of the more open-endedness of previous Assassin's Creeds. Much like the first Assassin's Creed, players will pick up target assignments at the Hidden Ones' in-construction Alamut Castle, a Persian fortress in the extended lore making its first in-game appearance.
Basim will need to use Enkidu, his Aquila Heliaca eagle, as his eyes in the skies. He'll need to keep an eye out for specialized archers on the rooftops of Baghdad that can shoot Enkidu down, though.
In an interview with Eurogamer, Sarah Beaulieu the narrative director of the game compared Assassin's Creed Mirage directly to Rogue and Revelations, the series' 2014 and 2011 entries.
"I think the most accurate comparison would be Rogue or Revelations, in terms of scope," Beaulieu said in response to a question about Mirage's runtime. "We also wanted to go back to what Assassin's Creed was in terms of story structure in the very early games, which means that it's linear. You have a beginning, you have an end, and it's a character's evolution."