War does more than displace civilians, or kill them. When wars are waged in residential areas, they become part of the calculus of simply getting through the day.
During the war in Ukraine, now reaching its six-month anniversary, my friends and colleagues there have held Zoom meetings between air raid signals. In a recent meeting, I noticed one of them was speaking from a shower stall, the most heavily reinforced area of their apartment. Professors who are defending their country tell me about grading students’ work between military drills, and many more everyday adaptations. Meanwhile, the grim realities of war crimes against civilians continue.
As an anthropologist, I have studied Ukrainians’ experiences amid armed conflict since Russia seized Crimea in 2014. My current research is concerned with the military violence’s effect on daily routines, personal relationships and values.
Between 2015 and 2017, I traveled extensively within the country, participating in daily life and interviewing over 150 people, focusing especially on how people who had been displaced from Crimea and Donbas were coping with conflict.
People told me repeatedly that one of the most troubling features of the conflict was how it disrupted personal relationships. Civilians found themselves reassessing their personal ethics as they struggled to prioritize competing obligations under the most challenging conditions.
Competing loves
Research on war’s implications for civilians has traditionally focused on psychological trauma, not interpersonal outcomes. Yet among the internally displaced people I interviewed, close to 70% had lost a relationship with friends, family or romantic partners, and this was among their top concerns.
The first reason was political: Relationships suffered because people took opposing sides. Take Larysa – who, like all my interviewees, I refer to with a pseudonym over concerns for their safety. Her mother and sister financially supported and ultimately went to work for the separatist governments in eastern Ukraine. She held them responsible for the death of her son, who was shot – by forces under the direction of leaders her mother and sister helped elect, with bullets they helped pay for – after he joined the Ukrainian forces.
Read more: https://theconversation.com/ukraines-war-has-shattered-some-friendships-and-family-ties-but-care-ethics-have-strengthened-other-relationships-188200