American feminist journalist and social political activist Gloria Steine once said, “A gender-equal society would be one where the word ‘gender’ does not exist: where everyone can be themselves.”
 There are women, like Goan sportsperson Steffi Cardozo, who have broken the glass ceiling by sacrificing their personal life in pursuit of their goals. Steffi was an upright girl who always dreamt of becoming a doctor. However, as a promising shot put athlete, the urge to make the state proud was too strong to resist. And at the age of 13, Steffi decided to make the switch from science stream to arts with the sole ambition of pursuing a career in sports at Patiala, Punjab. 
"I would travel alone all over the country and participate in competitions and sports events. I sacrificed my childhood and trained at the National Institute of Sports at Patiala, Punjab for over eight years," said Steffi.
 She represented India on nine occasions, won 28 national medals and broke a number of state and national records. Despite being a dedicated sportswoman, Steffi pursued her education and completed her masters in public administration as well as her business administration in sports management.
 According to Steffi, gender equality is one of the major concerns in Indian society. "Over decades, women have fought their ways out of the male-dominant culture. The sports industry is one such example which has seen an upsurge in the number of women athletes," she said.  
"Sport teaches women and girls the values of teamwork, self-reliance, resilience and has an effect on their health, education and leadership development; self-esteem; social connections; and challenges harmful gender norms."  Steffi says that women and girls should have an equal opportunity to enjoy the benefits. 
“People need to become more aware that women and men are equal and complementary. Behind every successful woman is her own dream and hardwork, and we all have a wonder woman inside us," she emphasised. 
"Dreams can be unraveled through dedication and hard work. Women have made a profound presence in the sports industry and their patience has turned out to be fruitful for them" she added.