It is a degrading practice banned for 29 years, but cleaning sewers and septic tanks by hand is a deadly reality for those who still do it, almost all Dalits. This is the story of two young men who died while cleaning a manhole in Lucknow, leaving behind once happy but now sorrowful, agitated families, their deaths revealing how municipal corporations, private companies, government apathy and the Hindu caste system continues to relegate manual scavengers to India’s margins. Lucknow: On 29 March, 2022, when her mobile phone rang, Sangeeta Bharti heard someone crying, trying to say something. She did not know who the person was. She could only make out the call was coming from near her son’s workplace—the dank sewers under the lanes of the teeming capital city of Uttar Pradesh (UP).



“At first I thought it was a prank,” said Sangeeta, 38, a slight woman with the first signs of grey. “It took me a while to realise that my son, Karan, had died.” Sangeeta, who washes utensils for a living, is a mother of two and a Dalit, lowest of Indian castes, who almost exclusively staff professions that no other castes will venture into. That includes cleaning sewers by hand, an act banned for 29 years since Parliament passed the Employment of Manual Scavengers and Construction of Dry Latrines (Prohibition) Act in 1993. Up to 99% of such “manual scavengers” in India are Dalits, according to a 2019 report from Oxfam, a global charity. Government data from December 2021, said that 42,495 of  58,098 manual scavengers, or 73%, were scheduled castes.



That fateful morning, Karan Bharti, 20, asked his mother for his breakfast and for Rs 10 to repair his cycle. When he got to work as a safai karamchari or cleanliness worker in a lane in old Lucknow, he was told by a supervisor of the company that employed him to descend a manhole to clear a clogged sewer line. 

Source - https://article-14.com/post/-when-will-papa-come-back-family-ambition-the-death-of-2-young-dalits-in-a-lucknow-sewer-6255e0424813a