One of the oldest football tournaments in the world, the 131st Durand Cup, kicks off in Kolkata on Tuesday. It serves as the first match of the Indian football season.

The Durand Cup will be held in Kolkata, Imphal, and Guwahati in 2022. At the Vivekananda Yubabharati Krirangan (VYBK) in Kolkata, the first game and the championship match will both take place. This year, Durand Cup games will also be held in the Kishore Bharati Krirangan (Kolkata), the Indira Gandhi Athletic Stadium (Guwahati), and the Khuman Lampak Stadium (Imphal).

There are 4 groups made up of the 20 competing teams. All 11 ISL clubs, 5 I-League teams, and 4 Army Contingent teams make up the 20 participating teams. Groups A and B teams will play their games in West Bengal, while Groups C and D teams will play their games in Assam and Manipur, respectively.

The Indian Super League teams are Bengaluru FC, Chennaiyin FC, East Bengal, FC Goa, Hyderabad FC, Jamshedpur FC, Kerala Blasters, Mumbai City FC, North East United, and Odisha FC. Mohammedan, NEROCA, Rajasthan United, TRAU, and Sudeva Delhi will represent the I-League, while Army Green, Army Red, the Indian Air Force, and the Indian Navy will symbolize the Indian Armed Forces.

Four groups, each with five sides, were created from all of these teams. These are the groups:

Group A: Bengaluru FC, FC Goa, Indian Air Force, Jamshedpur FC, Mohammedan Sporting

Group B: East Bengal, ATK Mohun Bagan, Mumbai City FC, Rajasthan United, Indian Navy

Group C: Chennaiyin FC, Army Red, Hyderabad FC, NEROCA, TRAU 

Group D: Kerala Blasters, Odisha FC, NorthEast United, Sudeva Delhi, Army Green

FC Goa will kick off the competition against Mohammedan SC at 7 p.m. at the Vivekananda Yuba Bharati Krirangan in Kolkata. The Kolkata Derby, which pits ATK Mohun Bagan against East Bengal on August 28, is undoubtedly the most significant event to keep an eye on.

The Durand Cup 2022 edition will be live televised on Sports 18 and streamed online via the OTT apps Voot and JioTV.

Image credits: N.Biren Singh/Twitter