Mayor Adams admitted late Monday that he eats fish sometimes after refusing to come clean about it for days and even deploying his press team to insist he’s on a strict vegan diet.

Adams, who has for years claimed adherence to a “plant-based” lifestyle, finally fessed up to his fish-eating in a written statement provided by a City Hall spokesman.

“Let me be clear: Changing to a plant-based diet saved my life, and I aspire to be plant-based 100% of the time. I want to be a role model for people who are following or aspire to follow a plant-based diet, but, as I said, I am perfectly imperfect, and have occasionally eaten fish,” Adams’ statement read.

The concession capped off a confusing back-and-forth set into motion after Politico reported Friday that Adams has been spotted dining on fish at a Midtown Manhattan restaurant.

Responding to the report, Max Young, Adams’ communications director, claimed the mayor follows a strict, plant-based diet and never eats fish.

But addressing the matter during a news conference at Kings County Hospital on Monday morning, Adams didn’t echo Young’s sentiment.

Rather, Hizzoner played coy and refused to give a straight answer when pressed about his eating habits.

“Ignore the noise. Don’t worry about what’s on Mayor Adams’ plate,” he said, adding that he’s “not going down this rabbit hole of ‘What do you eat?’ ”

In yet another wrinkle, a source close to the mayor told the Daily News later Monday that Adams has been spotted chowing down on beef and chicken in addition to fish.

Representatives for Adams did not return requests for comment on the beef and chicken details.

Adams’ eventual pescatarian flip-flop stands in sharp contrast to his past pronouncements of consuming only plant-based foods.

Adams has long told a story of cutting out animal proteins from his diet entirely in 2016 after being diagnosed with Type 2 diabetes. He says the dietary move helped him reverse blindness in his left eye and wrote a book about it in 2020 entitled, “Healthy at Last.”