Journalist Rana Ayyub, a relentless critic of the Modi government, who has dedicatedly called attention to the persecution of Muslims in India, was stopped from flying out of the country on 29 March in connection with a money laundering case that the world’s top human rights experts have called bogus. She spoke to us about why, despite the risks, she ignores everyone’s advice to lie low—even for a while—and won’t stop writing or tweeting.

Delhi: “Disgusting,” “humiliating,” Rana Ayyub said, looking at the obscene caricatures of herself, shared on social media after the 37-year-old journalist was stopped from flying to London on 29 March 2022 to speak about online violence against women.


When her face was morphed in a porn video in 2018, Ayyub recalled that right-wing handles deleted their Twitter posts when she called them out because there was still some fear of the law, but now there appears to be no stopping them. 

Earlier they were sexualising me but people were still a bit scared of posting publicly, but now it seems to have become an okay thing. It’s normalised,” Ayyub told us in an interview on 31 March. “Every individual has a threshold. I’ve been tough on myself by calling myself resilient. I should not have called myself resilient. My mental health has only become worse.”


The next day, Ayyub spent close to 12 hours at the office of the Enforcement Directorate (ED) office in Delhi, in response to the summons she says were emailed to her an hour before her flight was to leave from Mumbai airport. 

While she was questioned about the allegations of money laundering and tax fraud related to her crowdfunding campaign to help those affected by the Covid-19 pandemic in 2020, her lawyer Vrinda Grover moved the Delhi High Court to challenge the bar on flying. 


Ayyub has denied any wrongdoing, calling the allegations “baseless.” The ED has attached assets worth Rs 1.77 crores belonging to her.

Source - https://article-14.com/post/-why-journalist-rana-ayyub-barred-by-the-govt-from-leaving-the-country-won-t-stop-writing-or-tweeting--624a68f3dca0a