As we embrace ourselves for the final round of fixtures in the Premier League, we also ready ourselves for the emotional rollercoaster ride that is in store for us. With match week 35 upon us, we're only three matches away from Judgment day. Therefore, all the matches from game week 35 to the end will be pivotal in deciding the fate of the 20 clubs. 

The final lap of the Premier League also brings with it high drama and action, as the 20 managers will put their philosophies to the side and go all-out-attack.  In hopes of gaining maximum points from the remaining set of fixtures. From clubs fighting for the title to clubs fighting for survival. Each club will be looking to accomplish its season goals and reap the rewards. 

Matchweek 35 will see Frank Lampard take on his former club, Chelsea. In what has turned out to be a must-win match for both Lampard and Everton. With Everton languishing in one of the drop zones, the possibility of them dropping to the Championship is getting likelier by the hour. 

When the Chelsea legend, was questioned about whether he would manage an Everton team in the Championship. "I have been welcomed incredibly well by the fans and supported by them and I will do everything to get this club back to where I want it to be. I’m not going to jump into the future because it’s not worth it but, in terms of my dedication to this job, I will give it absolutely everything for as long as Everton wants me here and I can get them to where I think we can get to.”

In other sets of fixtures, Arsenal will be traveling to the London Stadium to take on West Ham. In a crunching London Derby between old foes. With Spurs breathing down their neck, the gunners need to keep winning, to keep their UCL hopes alive. Whereas Liverpool will face a stern test from a rejuvenated Newcastle team, Machester City will lock horns with Leeds United, who are fighting relegation themself.

Other noteworthy fixtures:

Spurs vs Leicester
Manchester United vs Brentford 
Watford vs Burnley