Emboldened by the confirmation of a hijab ban by the high court, Hindu fundamentalist organisations have pressured temple committees across Karnataka to keep out Muslim traders from about 60 fairs and have now escalated their demands to a ban on halal meat. As the government either endorses or silently approves illegal and unconstitutional intimidation, the police step aside, placing at risk close ties developed over centuries between Hindus and Muslims. We report from Karnataka’s prosperous, literate coastal areas.
Udupi, Kapu, Mulki, Mangaluru: Since he was a child, Rihan*, has lived all his life in the town of Mulki, along the Shambhavi river and Karnataka’s lush coast, known for the ancient diversity of its people and religions and its more recent status as a premier Indian surfing destination.
A small-time trader, Rihan is 34, and he has lived that diversity, a Muslim with friends of all religions, whose life has been intricately linked to a local 800-year-old shrine, the Bappanadu temple and its annual fair, which attracts not just Hindus but Muslim and Christian devotees. 

The Bappanadu temple fair is one of the most popular in what the locals called Tulunadu, where Tulu is the predominant language, separated into the districts of Dakshina Kannada and Udupi. The Bappanadu temple is officially called the Durga Parameshwari temple, built in 13th century by Bappa Beary, a Muslim sailor and merchant, whose boat ran aground in the middle of the Shambhavi river.

Bappa Beary is said to have had a vision in which Durga, the multi-armed goddess, instructed him to build an abode for her. Dugganna Sawant, a Jain and the king, provided land for the temple, and for eight centuries people of all faiths have flocked to the temples, offering jasmine to the goddess. 

The goddesses’ prasada or devotional food offering is delivered to Beary’s descendants to this day. The temple priests delivered the prasada to the Beary family this year as well.

Sources - https://article-14.com/post/how-hindu-extremists-aided-by-the-govt-are-tearing-apart-ancient-ties-between-muslims-hindus-62469bec708e0