From the start of his first term as France’s president in 2017, Emmanuel Macron made the relaunching of French as a world language his prime cultural project.
For some three centuries, the status of French as an international language was seen as a key asset for the French nation. It is spoken across some 106 countries and is an official language for 32 States and governments.
France benefited from its “ownership” of the language in which many of the world’s influential political, commercial, intellectual and artistic discussions were conducted. Even half a century ago under presidents Charles de Gaulle and Georges Pompidou, however, there was already a perception that it was losing ground. Important discussions were increasingly taking place in other languages, especially English, which had begun to establish itself as the world’s dominant lingua franca.
More recently, the defenders of French have accused France’s own elites of surrendering to the embrace of English, or “globish” as some of its international variants are sometimes disparagingly labelled.
Macron sought to reverse this spirit of surrender in a series of high profile speeches and ventures. His ideas were showcased most prominently in a speech at the Institut de France in Paris, but also fleshed out at presentations in Ouagadougou, Frankfurt, Yerevan and the Sorbonne.
More tangibly, his grand new 185 million euro architectural project, the Cité internationale de la langue française cultural site, is preparing to open its doors just outside Paris in Villers-Cotterêts. The purpose is to project French afresh to the world as a historically rooted but forward-looking and dynamic global language.
In a recently published paper, I explored why Macron took on this “reprojection” of French and how his approach differed from those of his predecessors. I looked at the difficulties it ran into and how it related to another of his early political priorities, the recasting of relations between France and Africa.
Read more: 
https://theconversation.com/macron-is-pushing-the-french-language-in-ways-not-seen-before-189585