The issue of malnutrition is quite complex and multifactorial having intergenerational effects. Moreover, poor socio-economic situation tend to perpetuate the problem across generations creating a vicious cycle. So, addressing such a scenario requires multisectoral engagement to address immediate as well as root causes. Convergent programming among several sectors having impact at different levels of determinants is key. 
Under Poshan Abhiyaan, convergent action plans is key instrument to deliver on this agenda. The programme guidance has laid significant emphasis on mapping the convergent sectors, developing stronger convergent action plans and review under the highest authority within states. This has led to some convergent action at the state and district level. However, there is still a tremendous scope to strengthen convergence among policies and programmes for addressing malnutrition and its socio-economic impact. Convergence in true sense requires all sectors to come together to deliver all the high impact interventions to the most vulnerable families, keeping the child at the center of the business achieving continuum of care especially during first 1000 days of life.  
Under the Poshan Abhiyaan, every year, the month of September is observed as a Poshan Maah. Several activities are undertaken to spread awareness of nutrition in the community. In this context, kindly elaborate the role of Social Behavioural Change and Communication (SBCC) activities. 
Malnutrition is closely linked to several behaviors at the household level like hand washing, sanitation, use of safe drinking water, infant and young child feeding practices and influence of traditional practices, practices related to intra-household food distribution, healthcare seeking behaviors, etc. Most of these behaviors are determined by deep rooted family beliefs and practices and go beyond routine delivery of services. 
In order to change these behaviors at individual, family and community level requires concerted efforts through community mobilization and Social Behavior Change Communication (SBCC). The objective is to address myths and misunderstandings prevalent in the society by creating awareness and raising demand for accessing services. The strategy should be to adopt context specific communication approaches that would enable families to change the behavior sustainably.