While the likes of Lionel Messi could come under pressure to play for European club teams leading right into the World Cup, players from Argentina’s opening-game opponent Saudi Arabia will have much more time to focus on the global event.” The Saudi league finishes on Sunday. On Monday, 32 players will head to Abu Dhabi to begin a World Cup training camp.
Football’s first mid-winter World Cup has squeezed European league schedules. The English Premier League finishes on November 13 for six weeks, and the French league’s season recess starts on the same weekend. The World Cup in Qatar runs from November 20 to December 18.
Qatar and Saudi Arabia may not have superstars playing in the world’s most prestigious leagues, but having rosters entirely of domestic-based players does give coaches some benefits.
“Saudi Arabia is in a tough group with Mexico, Argentina and Poland,” Sven Vandenbroeck, head coach of Saudi Professional League club Abha, said.
“It has one advantage though: a long 35-day camp to prepare and no other country has it.” The Saudis have never progressed past the group stage in five previous trips to the World Cup, starting in 1994. So they’re throwing plenty of resources at the extended preparation this time for Group C competition which they start November 22 against Messi’s Argentina. As well as three weeks of training in Abu Dhabi, there will be warm-up games against North Macedonia, Albania, Honduras, Iceland and Panama.
Since securing qualification for the World Cup, Saudi Arabia has played four times and has failed to score, losing against Colombia and Venezuela, and then drawing with Ecuador and the United States.
“The more time we can spend together before the World Cup, the better,” Saudi Arabia coach Herve Renard said.
“It is a valuable opportunity for us all to be as ready as we can be.”
World Cup host Qatar is in an even better position. The Qatar Stars League has also finished this week, however, most of the national team players have been in training camps since June.
Read more
https://theshillongtimes.com/2022/10/16/saudi-qatar-players-gear-up-for-fifa-world-cup/