By Chander Shekhar Luthra

In March 2014, Harish Salve, a former Solicitor General of India and a senior member of the Supreme Court Bar, successfully argued on behalf of the Cricket Association of Bihar (CAB) in the Indian Premier League (IPL) spot-fixing case, which was crucial in forcing the Board of Control for Cricket in India (BCCI) to concede defeat. In his words, the BCCI had a major “conflict of interest”, so “no one linked with India Cements, controlled by the then President N Srinivasan, be associated with the Board’s functioning”.

Salve, son of a former BCCI president, made a compelling argument for changes to the way the cricket governing body operates by participating in the initial hearings before the benches of Justice AK Patnaik and Justice JS Khehar, followed by Justice T.S. Thakur and Fakkir Mohamed Ibrahim Kalifulla.

Senior counsel Salve later withdrew from the BCCI case, reportedly under pressure from the top minister of the government in 2014, but he did not do so before outlining a strategy for extensive reforms in the BCCI’s operations. Salve’s early arguments served as the learned SC judges’ compass in the years that followed as the issue was bitterly battled out between the various BCCI groups vying for control of the richest cricket organisation in the world.

The court issued three distinct judgments in the course of the nearly three-year-long lawsuit. But in the final judgement it directed the registration of the BCCI’s constitution finalised by the court using its wide inherent powers and was authored by Justice D.Y. Chandrachud, who will likely take over as the Chief Justice of India in November 2022.

The court “accepted reforms in the administration of cricket proposed by a Committee chaired by Justice R.M. Lodha, and it also appointed a Committee of Administrators (CoA) to oversee the administration of BCCI until all the recommendations of Lodha Committee are implemented,” according to the conclusions drawn from those rulings.

Read the full story here:- https://theprobe.in/bcci-conflict-corruption-cricket-and-the-art-of-throwing-rules-to-the-wind/