By Surinder Singh Oberoi
New Delhi: Early his week, BBC news come up with an interesting story 'Man of the Hole': saying last remaining of his tribe dies in the Amazon forests of Brazil. The news says that the last remaining member of an uncontacted indigenous group in Brazil has died.
The story is a wake-up call, that retells us to save 51 leftover Indian tribals based in ‘Strait Island’ of Andaman and Nicobar Islands in India who too are getting extinct with each passing decade.
Tsunami floods followed by the Pandemic and epidemic and the curiosity of people to see and meet the diminishing tribe has affected the family living in the dense forested Islands of Andaman. Even though the area is declared as out of bounds for tourists and local neighbouring people.
There are six distinct indigenous communities living on the islands – the Great Andamanese, the Onges, the Jarawa, and the Sentinelese in the Andamans, and the Nicobarese and the Shompen in the Nicobar group of islands. All of them need to be protected.
Particularly Vulnerable Tribal Group (PVTG) are Great Andamanese that resides in the Andamans archipelago. The other four are Jarwas, Onges, Shompens, and North Sentinelese. The population of Andaman and Nicobar Islands’ primitive tribes has rapidly declined over the years.
The tribe is based in ‘Strait Island’ of Andaman and Nicobar Islands. The members speak the Jeru dialect among themselves and their number stands at 51 as per the last study carried out by Andaman Adim Janjati Vikas Samiti in 2012.
More than 5,000 Great Andamanese lived in the Islands before British settlers arrived in the 19th century. Hundreds were killed in the conflict as they defended their territories from British invasion, and hundreds more were wiped out in floods, epidemics, and diseases.
The Indigenous people of India, also known as aboriginal peoples or Adivasi feel threatened of their exitance and dying culture as a modern development of the surroundings is forcing many to abandon their traditional values and culture.
Read more 
https://www.newsdrum.in/analysis/how-harmless-are-51-left-over-tribals-based-in-strait-island-of-andaman-nicobar-83682.html