Creating a mysterious, engaging crime thriller connecting a small village and its people in the backdrop of Mayana Kollai, the annual village festival, Vikram Vedha fame Pushkar-Gayathri have proved again. Amazon Prime’s first Tamil web series Suzhal –the vertex is a binge watch.

Story was straight when it started. The only factory in Sambalur caught fire. Local police initiate an inquiry. With each step of its progression, as SI Sakkarai puts in, everybody you know there is not everybody you know. Confusing layers of characters untie strange realities about them. A spiral effect throughout. I am sucked by this facet of the series.

Look at Nandini’s entry amid the bustle of Mayana Kollai (graveyard robbery). A multi-layered, single-shot grabbing her disturbing self walking into Angalamman, the powerful Goddess. The dark tone envelops her persona suggests she is a mystery. A talented Aishwarya depicts it well. But she seems lethargic.

We have some in the good-bad binary. Circle Inspector Regina, a fierce cop for instance. Her son is her weakness. The lady bends and cries for him. We just can’t believe she can betray herself and the enterprising cop Sakkarai tailing her in the inquiry. Respected trade union leader Shanmugham’s case is no different. A bit predictable, that’s a flaw. Trilok, the factory owner’s son is another. What we expect from this guy is all bad. Was he?

It’s interesting to note another loop. Trilok asks his rich father - what if I want to be a little-known guy in a big city? Coincidentally, it connects to Nandini’s peaceful stay at her workplace in the city. When Nila is being explored more, we get to know she wants to escape to a big metro with her boyfriend where no familiar faces are around. It’s not always the hamlet you grew up is your heaven. Sometimes, the very place can also turn out to be a web of toxic emotions you are trapped in.

Suzhal blends local myths and metaphors well into the script. A commendable star cast and brilliant direction elevate the series to a different level.