The theme of this year creates a significance on raising awareness on the extensive difference in the cancer care and prevention that people from different sections of the society can avail. 

The World Cancer Day is recognised on the 4th February across the globe and it aims for raising awareness about the fatal disease and its various symptoms. 
The day try also insipires many individuals who are suffering from the disease to take prompt action and go for life saving treatments and care. This international awareness day is led by the Union for International Cancer Control (UICC).

Apart from raising awareness, this special day is also about working together to prevent cancer deaths and provide all possible treatment for patients.

Every year, cancer kills nearly 10 million people. Nearly 70 per cent of the fatalities are over 65 years and above.

This year’s World Cancer Day theme is “Close the Care Gap”. The theme aims to raise awareness about the vast difference in cancer care and prevention that people from different sections of society can avail. People with low income, lack of educational qualifications, and disabilities face considerable barriers in availing care for cancer.

Transgender populations and refugees are some groups that are often unable to get proper treatment until their cancer has progressed to an advanced stage. Even race is an important factor in availing healthcare options for cancer. According to recent statistics by the UICC, the five-year survival rate for cervical cancer is 71 per cent for white women and 58 per cent for Black women in the United States. 

As per reports, more than 90 per cent of cervical cancer mortality occurs in middle and low-income countries.

History and Significance:

World Cancer Day was initiated in the year 2000, when the Union came up with a positive movement to unite everyone to face one of the greatest challenges in history.

The day was born on 4 February at the World Summit Against Cancer for the New Millennium in Paris. The UICC aimed to promote research, raise awareness, improve patient services, prevent cancer and mobilise the global community to make progress in its campaign.

Read more - https://www.google.com/amp/s/www.firstpost.com/world/world-cancer-day-2022-why-this-years-theme-is-close-the-care-gap-10340071.html/amp