With 18 goals and being the only player with two Player of the Month awards in the season, 37 year old star deserve to be in the nomination list. 

Fans and football followers around the World are surprised to see the nomination list of Premier league Player of the season award. United's Super star Cristiano Ronaldo is not in the list, where 8 players are nominated. Trent Alexander Arnold(Liverpool), Jarrod Bowen(West Ham), Kevin De Bruyne(Manchester City), Bukayo Saka(Arsenal), Mohamed Salah(Liverpool), Jao Cancelo(Manchester City), James Ward-Prowse(Southampton) and Son Heung-Min(Tottenham) are in the list. Player of the season award will be presented to one player according to the voting by public, captains of 20 teams and a panel of football experts. 

Cristiano Ronaldo, who returned to Manchester United this season had an excellent time even when team didn't do as expected. He was player of the month in September 2021 and April 2022. Last month, he has scored 5 goals in 4 matches, also has scored 2 hat tricks - in March and April. 

Mohamed Salah has got 22 goals and 13 assists in the season, becoming the 6th player to score more than 20 goals in 4 different seasons. His goal scoring form was very important in Liverpool performance throughout the season. Alex Arnold is one of the best players in the league, playing end to end with 12 assists. 

Son is phenomenal in scoring with left and right foot, and spectacular goals from outside the box too. He has got 7 assists too. Kevin De Bruyne is the master of the City game. He triggers attacks, makes important interceptions and scores goals. He thrashed Wolves in the last game scoring 4 out of 5 goals. He has got 15 goals and 7 assists so far this season. 

Young Bukayo Saka holds the Arsenal attack and game plan together. From 36 games, has scored 11 goals and 6 assists. Jarrod Bowen had a super season with West Ham, scoring 10 goals and assisting 10. 


5 time Ballon d'Or and 2 time Premier league player of the season (2006-2007, 2007-2008) award winner still have the eligibility to get it this time.