He quickly integrated into the team and was instrumental in Chelsea winning the title. He was like Kante, relentless in his running and pressing, covering ground and assisting his teammates.He played in every game despite being 35 years old at the time, as he was this reliable for a player of Makelele's stature, and the player left the club in 2008, having played 217 games.
3 Cesc Fabregas
Another excellent addition for Chelsea, as he was beneficial in the Blues' Premier League title triumph in 2016. Under Conte, Fabregas was a main player who served as a playmaker and controlled the game from midfield. During play, he provided vision, creativity, and understanding among teammates. Because of his poise on the ball, he was frequently used as a set-piece taker and penalty taker.
During his four years at the club, he made 198 appearances, scored 22 goals, and won two Premier League titles.
2 Eden Hazard
Hazard was a player with terrific ball control who had defenders on the floor and was a technical player like Lionel Messi. Hazard was a truly amazing attacking-midfielder at Chelsea, thanks to his small stature, which gave him balance and gravity to beat defenders. He caused events to occur because he was fast, good at dribbling, and the best passer of the ball.
It's unfortunate that he became a flop after moving to Real Madrid, but Hazard was simply an exceptional player with exceptional attributes, leaving Chelsea with 352 appearances and 110 goals.

1 Frank Lampard
No midfielder has surpassed Lampard as one of Chelsea's greatest playmakers. The player was a great visionary who could pick players from every angle and scored many goals for the club. He was a West Ham youth product signed for £11 million in 2011, and the rest is history.
He cemented his designation and became Chelsea's all-time leading goal-scorer with 211 goals during his 13 years at the club. He also holds the record for most consecutive league appearances by an outfielder, with 164 in a row. He truly made his mark at Chelsea and left a legacy.
