In recent time, Cristiano Ronaldo has expressed his desire to leave the Manchester United. He has been the focal point of discussion during the summer transfer window having reiterated his loath to remain at Old Trafford in light of it calamitous state. Whether or not the Portuguese will depart the club remains to be seen. However, a move is more than imperative at this moment in his quest for an illustrious career.

Ronaldo who scored 118 goals in 292 games for United between 2003 and 2009, winning three Premier League titles, the Champions League, the FA Cup and two League Cups re-joined the club from Juventus last summer. 

The 37-year-old forward was the heart and soul of the Red Devils last campaign. He became the club’s highest goal scorer with 24 goals and inspired them to most victories gained in all competitions as they slumped to a sixth place finish in the Premier League. 

United’s absence from the Champions League coupled with their horrific start to the new campaign in addition to the mediocrity that pervades the management structure at Old Trafford has necessitated Ronaldo’s decision to see through the exit door. 

Indisputably, the Erik Ten Hag-managed side are in shambles, tattered and very depleted. They recorded their worst start to a Premier League season for 101 years this weekend having crumbled heavily to Brentford in a 4-0 loss. That preceded their 2-1 mauling against Brighton on opening day. Amidst these woes, it is quite implausible for a player in his calibre to be delighted with the situation. Hence the need for him to seek a fresh challenge elsewhere. 

In addendum, the usual trend of a decline in productivity as a player ages is not applicable to Ronaldo. The erstwhile Real Madrid striker is very efficient in play, amasses incredible goals and significantly contributes to the team. As such, he’s bent on competing among his peers across the globe and his nomination for the Ballon d’ Or attests to this assertion. His departure therefore becomes important in a bid to materialize this goal.