Kidney trade has been booming in Afghanistan’s western province Herat has been booming for the last few years. But, buying and selling of the vital organ among destitute Afghans has increased manifold in the past few months.

As the country’s economy is in dire straits after the Taliban captured power in August, and the US and NATO forces abruptly withdrew from the war-torn nation, poverty has grown deeper. According to the United Nations, Afghanistan is facing a deep humanitarian crisis and economic collapse. Severe drought, the pandemic, job losses and economic sanctions have led to huge inflation. And, with frozen Afghan assets abroad and dearth of international funding has hit the vulnerable sections of the society hard. Starvation and famine loom large over the country.

According to the UN refugee agency, UNHCR, over 40 million Afghans face extreme hunger and nearly 9 million are at the brink of famine. In such a situation, for a growing number of people, selling a kidney in a burgeoning organ market is the easiest way to feed themselves and their family. It’s an irony that humans have two kidneys and people can survive with one.     

With such a large number of willing donors, several kidney rackets are doing big business in the western part of the country. Desperate people are now selling the vital organ to the lowest bidder—the price of a kidney has dropped from $4000 last year to less than $1500.

In May 2021, the then president Ashraf Ghani had entrusted a delegation to investigate illegal kidney trade in the region. A civil society activist, who was part of the team, found that hospitals performing kidney transplants flout all laws. They not only deny the exact number of surgeries but sell kidneys to patients abroad. There are even rackets that send donors to countries like Iran where there is a huge demand for cheap kidneys of Afghan citizens.    

Moreover, people who donate kidneys often do not get adequate post-operative care and suffer in ignominy.

READ MORE:

https://www.euronews.com/2022/01/12/extreme-poverty-drives-afghans-to-sell-vital-organs-to-feed-families

https://www.theguardian.com/global-development/2022/jan/23/ive-already-sold-my-daughters-now-my-kidney-winter-in-afghanistans-slums

https://www.nytimes.com/2021/02/06/world/asia/selling-buying-kidneys-afghanistan.html