
1. Spain
The current champions are looking strong and confident after their first group match. They overcame Colombian defensive tactics and secured all important 3 points from the match. Group C is a tough one. Japan or France could be their opponents in the second round. The Spanish team consists of physically and mentally strong girls. They are showing good coordination, attacking mentality and ruthless defending. 
Coach : Eugenio Gonzalo Martín
Key Players : Camacho, Vicky Lopez, Fuente Andres
2. USA
The best in the women's football, USA show no mercy to debutants and hosts India. Their real strength will be revealed in the match against Brazil. It was their biggest U17 victory against India. USA, who haven't gone past the group stage after 2008, are a better side than previous campaigns. 
Coach : Natalia Astrain
Key Players: Melina Rebimbas, Onyeka Gamero. 
3. Japan
One of the most successful teams in the Women's U17 World Cup, Japan started their campaign with a thrashing 4-0 win over debutants Tanzania. When they meet Canada in the next match, their only aim will be winning it and securing a spot into the second round. 
Coach : Michihisa Kano
Key Players : Momoko Tanikawa, Hitomi Shibata
4. Germany
After Spain, Germany are having the best results in U17 World cup from Europe. The Germans are the most successful side at the UEFA Women’s Under-17 Championship with seven titles. They have 3 points from their first group match, after overcoming a strong Nigerian side 2-1. They came up from a 1 goal first half deficit. If they win against Chile today, their confidence will be doubled. 
Coach : Friederike Margareta Kromp
Key Players : Steiner, Sehitler, Mara Alber
5. Brazil 
After securing a win and three points in the first match, Friday will mark the first meeting between the USA and Brazil at the FIFA U-17 Women’s World Cup, but the teams have met in three U-20 WWCs and in some of women’s soccer’s most memorable matches at the senior level. They have a talented team that could go all the way to the top. 
Coach : Simone Jatobá
Key Players : Ana Carolina, Jhonson
