Undoubtedly one of America's greatest women basketball players, Ann Meyers Drysdale is a trailblazer in a true sense. 

She was the first player selected to the US national basketball team while still in high school.

Born on March 26, 1955 at San Diego, California, she was one of 11 children, with five sisters and five brothers.

She became the first female to be awarded a full athletic scholarship at any university. 

Meyers Drysdale is well-known for breaking the gender barrier in sports. She is the first UCLA (University of California, Los Angeles) female basketball player to be a four-time All American, the first woman inducted into the UCLA Athletics Hall of Fame and the first player in NCAA history–male or female–to record a quadruple-double. 

She was the first woman to be drafted to the Women’s Professional Basketball League and the first to sign a free agent contract with an NBA (National Basketball Association) team, the Indiana Pacers, in 1979.

Boston Celtics legend Bill Russell once referred to her as "one of the best players ever (man or woman)."

Meyers Drysdale is also a trailblazer in sports broadcasting, becoming the first woman to broadcast an NBA game, this one too for the Pacers.

Her sports broadcasting career has spanned almost 45 years, including broadcasting six Olympics (1984, 2000, 2004, 2008, 2012, 2016). She also covered men’s and women’s Final Four’s, plus volleyball, softball, and other sports.

Meyers Drysdale was a member of the national team, that became the first US women's basketball team to play in the Olympics at the 1976 Montreal Games. 

In 1976, she was able to follow in the footsteps of Olympic greats such as Babe Diedrickson, Wilma Rudolf and Wyomia Tyus. She won a silver at the Montreal Games. 

She was instrumental in the passage of a law that enabled

so many more young girls and women to pursue an education and also play sports they love. Besides, they have a voice because of the legislation. There are more successful women today in corporate America who started as college athletes.

Meyers Drysdale continues to be a leader–promoting equal access for women in sports.