The High Council for National Reconciliation (HCNR), the once high-powered National Security Council, and the commission for overseeing the implementation of the Afghan constitution were also also among the dissolved departments. According to Taliban officials, the organisations in question were not included in the budget and could be revived at a later date "if needed".

Kabul: Less than a year after taking over the reigns of the Afghan government , the Taliban  have now scrapped several 'unnecessary' departments including the country's Human Rights  Commission. The revelation comes amid a massive financial crunch, mere days after the Taliban-led government announced its first annual national budget since taking over.

The High Council for National Reconciliation (HCNR), the once high-powered National Security Council, and the commission for overseeing the implementation of the Afghan constitution were also dissolved. According to a Reuters report quoting government officials, the organisations in question could be revived at a later date "if needed".

Because these departments were not deemed necessary and were not included in the budget, they have been dissolved," Innamullah Samangani, the Taliban government 's deputy spokesman was quoted as saying. Afghanistan  faces a budget deficit of 44 billion Afghanis ($501 million) this financial year.

Since their return to power in August last year, the Taliban have taken several controversial steps, spurring international outrage. Despite assurances that they would be more moderate in their administration this time around (the Taliban ruled Afghanistan from 1996 to 2001), they are yet to allow older girls to restart education, and have also introduced rules that mandate that women and girls wear veils and requiring them to have male relatives accompany them in public places.
Meanwhile, UN Chief Antonio Guterres claimed last week during a human rights conference that terrorism was resurgent in Afghanistan and could become a global threat. "As a moral duty, a legal obligation, and a strategic imperative, let's put human rights where they belong -- front and center -- in the fight against terror," he was quoted as saying.