The effects of a warming planet are ranging from increased droughts and coastal flooding to reductions in snow and ice. But while most climate predictions look ahead to the potential risks 50 or 100 years from now, there are places around the globe that are already being impacted by global warming. Lets start with the example of Alaska.Vast, remote, and largely still wild, Alaska stirs wonder in the hundreds of thousands who visit each year. 
It contains 17 of the 20 highest peaks in the United States, including Denali, the highest peak in North America. It is home to an estimated 100,000 glaciers. Its natural monuments—mountains, tundras, glaciers, lakes, seas—are of such gargantuan scale that the environment can seem immutable.Yet Alaska’s climate is changing, thanks to human-caused global warming, and the effects are widespread and sometimes dangerous. Alaska has been warming twice as quickly as the global average since the middle of the 20th century. Alaska is warming faster than any U.S. state. Alaska’s Changing Environment notes that, since 2014, there have been 5 to 30 times more record-high temperatures set than record lows.The main thing that makes this place venerable is that Alaska climate monitoring is critical to U.S. economic strength. Alaska’s commercial fishing industry is the most productive such industry in the United States, producing more harvest volume than all other states combined. Alaska exports annually more than one million metric tons of seafood; in 2016, Alaska seafood was sold in 105 countries. The Alaska seafood industry generates $12.8 billion in annual economic output for the U.S. Climate change and ocean acidification put all the state’s fisheries at risk. The measures taken by the government was that The Alaska Climate Change Sub-Cabinet was established in 2006 to advise the Governor on climate change strategy, including opportunities to reduce greenhouse gas emissions through the use of alternative fuels, energy conservation, fuel efficiency, and transportation planning.