From highs to controversies, the Arsenal career of Granit Xhaka is perhaps the most colourful in the club’s recent history. Arriving from Borussia Monchengladbach in May 2016, Xhaka added steel and silk, the Arsenal website noting that “his unusual range of skills recalls the solid but cultured style of one of Wenger’s old favourites, Emmanuel Petit.”
As Xhaka proved his importance to Arsene Wenger’s style – finishing second and first for passes in the Premier League under the Frenchman – he showed signs of his long-range goal threat. His first goal for Arsenal was a swerving missile against Hull City and he ended the season with an FA Cup title, playing 90 minutes in the final.
After a player-of-the-match performance in the Community Shield in August 2017, Xhaka enjoyed his most creative campaign for the Gunners till date. With eight assists, he was Arsenal’s third-most prolific creator. 
In 2018-19, Unai Emery replaced Wenger and guided Arsenal to the Europa League final, with Xhaka proving his indispensability to the new regime: he played the second-most minutes that season. The midfielder’s leadership qualities were recognised the following campaign as he was named captain. However, he was soon involved in a controversy regarding his behaviour with the Arsenal fans after being substituted against Palace. Xhaka lost the captaincy and it seemed his time at the club was over.
But the arrival of Mikel Arteta brought a change of fortune. Taking charge mid-way through 2019-20, Arteta set about reintegrating Xhaka. The result was another FA Cup and Community Shield in August 2020.
As Arsenal have entered a new era, Xhaka has transitioned well to being the experienced hand – and a new role in 2022-23. With 250 Arsenal appearances before this season, plus 14 goals and 22 assists, this seasoned campaigner has looked revitalised in a more flexible, attacking role and his indiscipline – 69 yellows and five reds for Arsenal – seems to be on the wane; Xhaka has only been booked once this season. Having started all seven games so far, Xhaka has scored once and supplied two assists – already as many as in each of the previous three seasons.