Thrash metal as a genre appeared in the 80s with the likes of Overkill, Exodus, Metallica, Slayer, Megadeth, Anthrax, Testament, Annihilator, Razor. Kreator, Sodom, Destruction etc. Thrash emerged as the counterpart to hair metal in the 80s when bands like Motley Crue and Quiet Riot had emerged. Well that was glam metal which was actually ‘metal’.

To counter their more frivolous looks and soft version of heavy music, thrash metal bands combined heavy metal of bands such as Iron Maiden, Judas Priest, Black Sabbath, Saxon, Diamond Head with the breakdowns and mid paced intensity of hardcore punk bands such as Suicidal Tendencies, Black Flag, Minor Threat etc.

Back in its prime, thrash was the purest stuff there was with its heavy riffs, intensity, blazing solos, speed and all the other good stuff. Once the whole grunge era of the 90s started, hair metal almost fully died out and thrash remained mostly dead for a decade, though it witnessed a resurgence in the 2000s when its old stalwarts and even newer bands started bringing back thrash.

Bands combined them with different genres such as groove metal, metalcore, death metal, black metal, progressive metal, extreme metal, power metal, industrial metal, symphonic metal etc. But thrash would never fully regain its 80s glory, no matter how hard and raw it went.

The reason for that is simple, thrash in the 80s developed as a gateway genre to more extreme sub genres of metal such as death metal and extreme metal, and while the other extreme bands took the core elements of thrash and adapted, pure thrash remained the same.

While it holds true for a lot of heavy music, thrash metal in particular is so riff dependant that it grew stale, and pure thrash simply did not have the power it used to have. While hybrid bands such as Vektor, Revenge, Trivium, Machine Head and Skeletonwitch are expanding upon it, thrash metal is a victim of time, no longer having either the same energy, power or originality with even some of the oldest veterans such as Testament and Sodom making music that is practically indistinguishable from each other.