Union Berlin and Union Saint Gilloise will be up against each other in their opening encounter of the Europa League 2022-23. This will be a Group D match which will be played at the Alte Forsterei.
Braga, Malmo, Union Berlin, and Union Saint-Gilloise are the 4 clubs that have been drawn in Group D of the Europa League campaign this season. This will be a first meeting between both the sides in a competitive fixture.
Union Berlin will be playing just their third appearance in the UEFA Europa League this seaosn. Previously, they have been a part of the UEFA Cup and UEFA Conference League. This will be the 12th time of a German side hosting a Belgian side at home in European competitions. 
Union Berlin vs Union Saint-Gilloise Match Details
Match: Union Berlin vs Union Saint-Gilloise
Date and Time: 08th September, 05:45 pm UK, 06:45 pm Local, 10:15 pm IST
Venue: Alte Forsterei
Union Berlin vs Union Saint-Gilloise Probable Playing XI
Union Berlin: Frederik Ronnow, Robin Knoche, Paul Jaeckel, Danilho Doekhi, Julian Ryerson, Janik Haberer, Morten Thorsby, Rani Khedira, Niko Gießelmann, Sheraldo Becker, Kevin Behrens
Union Saint-Gilloise: Anthony Moris, Ismaël Kandouss, Siebe Van der Heyden, Christian Burgess, Bart Nieuwkoop, Teddy Teuma, Senne Lynen, Jean Thierry Lazare, Simon Adingra, Victor Boniface, Dante Vanzeir
Union Berlin vs Union Saint-Gilloise Probable Winners
Saint-Gilloise have not started their campaign on a happy note this season and have lost 2 out of their last 3 games including a thrashing defeat against Rangers. Union Berlin have better squad than their opponents and the home advantage will certainly come to their rescue.
Prediction: Union Berlin 2-0 Union Saint-Gilloise
Union Berlin vs Union Saint-Gilloise Live Stream
Union Berlin vs Union Saint-Gilloise will be live-streamed on SonyLIV. Indian fans can also stream the match live on Jio TV. In Germany, The match will be televised on DAZN. Prime Video subscribers will be able to watch the match online via the website or app. In Belgium, Telenet will broadcast and live stream the games of the Europa League 2022-23 season. 