Josko Gvardiol-A Modern Center-Back-Scout Report
He ranks 3.18 interceptions per 90, which puts him in the 96 percentile.
From the visualization, we have compared his interceptions and passes blocked, we can see that the Croatian falls in the first quadrant.
From the heatmap, we can see that he has made defensive contributions mostly in the defensive and attacking third. The yellow spot where the most defensive action. He uses his pace to close down on threatening situations.
Goal Scoring Threat
Gvardiol has scored 2 goals. His first goal was from a set piece. He was standing in the right position to score the goal. His second goal was in the penalty box. After an exchange with a teammate, he prodded with his left foot. It goes on to show that Gvardiol is not afraid to venture out of the attacking area. He has scored 0.1 goals per 90. He has taken 23 shots out of which 7 were on target.
All Rounder 
He is amazing at dribbling, as he likes to dribble past players at ease. He ranks 0.90 dribbles per 90, putting him in the 99 percentile. He dislikes attackers/wingers who dribble past him. He has made 1.30 dribblers he managed to stop per match, putting him in the 99 percentile.
Enters Chelsea
Chelsea has already bought Wesley Fofana, Marc Cucurella, and Kalidou Koulabaly for the departure of Emerson, Antonio Rudiger, Andreas Christensen, and Marcos Alonso, are looking to strengthen their backline by acquiring Josko Gvardiol for 90 million, which was turned down by the German club, as he signed an extension with them. One can rest assured that Chelsea will be back for him next season. Chelsea owner Ted Bohley will be looking to mark his dominance in the transfer market.
Final Verdict
Whether it be in his homeland or foreign land Josko excels in it. Considering it was his debut season, he could only go upward. Any team who wants the service of Gvardiol needs to pay the red bull team a hefty salary to prise away the Croatian international. If he makes the move, the defender will own the backline for the next decade or so.
