  One of the most overhyped and extraordinarily overrated shows of all time, Attack On Titan is a show which unfortunately overshadows anime ten times better than it. Forget Berserk, Re:Zero or Fullmetal Alchemist Brotherhood, oh no, the best anime of all time? Attack On Titan! Okay seriously, jokes aside there is nothing particularly bad about the anime/manga, but it is so overrated, like there is better stuff out there.

Based on a manga by Isayama Hajime, AOT, originally called Shingeki no Kyojin, is based in a post-apocalyptic world where humanoid, man-eating monsters called Titans have forced humanity to live behind a series of walls. After a century of peace, the wall is suddenly breached and the Titan onslaught begins. The story focuses on Eren Jaeger, Mikasa Ackerman, and Armin Arlert who join the Survey Corps, a military branch dedicated to rescuing humanity from the Titan attacks. Sounds awesome, right? Yeah...that is until you watch it and realize that..meh I’ve seen better.

It has a pretty good story, but the pacing is bad and it takes too long to actually build up. And man, the plot has been stretched to high heavens as something incredibly unique. It’s really not. Try reading Berserk. While on the surface it has a very simple plot, it constantly evolves and has a multitude of themes hidden underneath. Not to mention a good story ought to be engaging from the get go, AOT simply is not, requiring over 25 episodes to actually build up. Erin is a joke of a protagonist, just too boring to talk about.

The show relies far too much on shock value, majority of all its ‘engaging’ scenes are all about shocking the audience. Seriously, it gets boring after a while. It is extremely grim and devoid of cheer, and that is normally fine, but it is handled in a way that makes it more edgy rather than authentic, like it has to try hard to be grim rather than letting the darkness and macabre settle in naturally. Bottom line, AOT is not bad by any means, it is actually good, just far too overrated.