Gokulam Kerala FC, who won the I-League for the second time in a row in Kolkata beating Mohammedan Sporting 2-1 in the crucial encounter, have created history. Never before in the 15-year chronicle of I-League, a team could defend the title, not even mighty Dempo FC, a team who once ruled Indian football. But this is only a part of Gokulam’s success. What fans don’t realise that this Kerala side have also given a new lease of life to I-League, especially after the pandemic time.
With the introduction of Indian Super League (ISL), the traditional I-League (earlier NFL) was expected to lose much of its sheen. And when the All India Football Federation (AIFF) declared ISL the country’s main league, one thought the curtain had gone down on I-League. But that still the traditional league survived and doing well, is because of teams like Gokulam. Their club management never lost heart and continued to do their best for football in Kerala despite having limited budget. 
Like other clubs in the country, Gokulam are not spending money for men’s football only. Beside the men’s team, they also have the women’s team, who are also considered one of the best in the country. The last time the Indian Women’s League (IWL) was held, Gokulam bagged the title and are currently poised to win it again in Bhubaneswar. If Gokulam manage to pip their main rivals Sethu, Madurai in the key encounter, then they will have the unique distinction of winning both the men’s and women’s national titles in the same year. In that case, it would be a record, which, one can safely predict, would remain intact for many years to come. 
The only worry is, the spectacular showing of Gokulam shouldn’t get reduced to a short-term success. Previously, Aizawl FC and Chennai City had displayed great promise by winning the I-League but fizzled out almost immediately. While the Chennai side no more play in the I-League, Aizawl FC are no more the fine side they were. Gokulam Kerala FC should hopefully be able to sustain themselves.