Prime Video’s new set of releases gives a Rom-Com to all the hopeless romantics.” I Want You Back” Directed by Jason Orley. Plot explain as : 
When Peter (Charlie Day) and Emma (Jenny Slate) meet, they immediately bond over the fact that they were both dumped by their respective spouses, Anne (Gina Rodriguez) and Noah (Scott Eastwood), on the same weekend. "Misery loves company," as the adage goes, but when they notice on social media that their exes have joyfully gone on to new romances, Anne with Logan (Manny Jacinto) and Noah with Ginny, their commiseration transforms into a quest (Clark Backo). Peter and Emma plan a desperate strategy to reclaim the loves of their life, terrified that they have lost their chance at happily ever after in their 30s and scared at the possibility of having to start over.Each will do whatever it takes to put an end to their exes' new relationships and send them running back to their arms.
Plot will probably not thrill you unless rom-coms are your comfort food and you expressly desire all those all-too-familiar features. I Want You Back follows a standard rom-com formula and accomplishes little to alter the genre. As a result, it's a rom-com in the traditional sense. There isn't anything in this film's narrative that surprises the reviewer.  T Whatever your predilection about the genre, I Want You Back is perfectly enjoyable to watch with your better half (or alone, if that’s your thing). Because of the humanity and warmth that Day and Slate bring to their characters, and clever, flowing dialogue, the movie has a real companionable charm and offers several worthwhile moments. 
Just do not expect anything particularly inventive. Especially me who is a sucker for the Rom - Coms Amazon Studios’s other rom- coms such as The Big  Sick and What If? Was much better in every sense as there’s a cupid sense with a hint of background score which makes the story or your own story.
Still a great watch though, Rotten Tomatoes stand at 87% where as IMDB- 6.6/10.