Group H fixtures of the UEFA Champions League 2022-23 season will commence with the game between Benfica vs Maccabi Haifa. This game will be played at Benfica’s home stadium, the Estadio de Luz.
PSG, Juventus, Benfica, and Maccabi Haifa are the four teams from Group H who will becontesting for the UCL 2022-23 title. This will be the first metween between Benfica andMaccabi Haifa in European competitions.
Benfica will not be coming in this game with a very good record as they have not managed to win a single opening fixture in the UEFA Champions League since 2015-16. Maccabi Haifa on the other hand are the first proper Israel side to make it to the UCL since 2015-16. The lastIsrael club to do it was Maccabi Tel Aviv.
Benfica vs Maccabi Haifa Match Details
Match: Benfica vs Maccabi Haifa
Date and Time: 07th September, 08:00 pm UK (06/09), 08:00 pm Local (06/09), 12:30 am IST
(07th September)
Venue: Stadion Maksimir
Benfica vs Maccabi Haifa Probable Playing XI
Benfica: Odysseas Vlachodimos (GK), Gilberto, Nicolas Otamendi, Felipe Morato, Alejandro
Grimaldo, Enzo Fernandez, Florentino Luis, David Neres, Rafa Silva, Joao Mario, GoncaloRamos
Maccabi Haifa, Josh Cohen, Daniel Sundgren, Bogdan Planic, Sean Goldberg, Pierre Cornud, Neta Lavi, Mohammad El Fazaz, Tjaronn Chery, Dean David, Frantzdy Pierrot, Omer Atzili
Benfica vs Maccabi Haifa Probable Winners
Benfica are running riot at the moment. They are currently on a 15-game winning streak across all competitions including the last 9 wins on their home stretch.Maccabi Haifa have also been in brilliant form and have won their last couple of games andhaven’t lost any of their last 5 games. However, due to the Home advantage, Benfica is
expected to dominate the game.
Prediction: Benfica 2-0 Maccabi Haifa
Benfica vs Maccabi Haifa Live Stream
Benfica vs Maccabi Haifa will be live-streamed on SonyLIV. Indian fans can also stream the match live on Jio TV. In Portugal, the match will be televised on Eleven Sports. TVI subscribers will be able to watch the match online via the TVI website or app. In Israel, The Sports Channel will broadcast the games while Arena Sport will live stream.