Toone ranks highly in progressive short passes as she ranks 87 percent in the passes she had successfully made and 91 percentile in passes she had attempted.



She has been very creative this season. Ella had the freedom to roam and create goal creating and shots creating chances. A good example of this came against Chelsea, where Toone was able to exploit the space she’s in to feign a shot and play in Alessia Russo

Ella Toone is also creative as she has come up with the highest number of goals and shots creating actions. She is miles ahead of other players in terms of ball creativity. She ranks 94 percentile for live- ball passes which lead to shots creation and 97 percentile for live-ball passes which lead to eventual goal scoring chances.  



From the above clip, we can see that Toone plays as a striker who is able to finish and could have easily assisted Hanson on the right but instead, she opts for the more daring pass, bypassing the penalty area and for Hanson to bury the ball into the back of the net.


She is amazing with progressing the ball through passing and carries. She is ahead of other players in terms of progressing with the ball. Toone ranks 92 percentile in progressive passes and 88 percentile in carrying with the ball. She falls into the first quadrant.

She has made only 40 tackles out of which she was able to successfully dispossess opponent’s only 24 times. Ella made most of her touches in the middle third and attacking third. Toone needs to track back if she wants to improve her defensive stats.

She ranks high in goals, xG, Carries into the box, pressure in the attacking third, Touches in the 1/3rd area of the field and in the box. It goes on to show that she performs well in the midfield position, compared to taking on Attacking wingers. 


Given Toone’s transition of position this season, she has made a smart decision as she can create more goal and shot creating chances and she can easily exploit the spaces. 

Link:  https://link.medium.com/sq6XcqubXob