Viktor Vitaliyovych Tsygankov  is an Israeli-born Ukrainian professional footballer who plays as a midfielder for FC Dynamo Kyiv and the Ukraine national football team.Tsygankov is a product of the Nyva Vinnytsia and Dynamo Kyiv sport schools. He made his debut for Dynamo in 2016 against FC Stal Kamianske.

His main position is as right winger,but he can comfortably also play as an attacking midfielder and also as a left winger. 


He has a total of 85 goals in 213 appearances he made, with majority of goals coming in Ukrainian Premier League (71) and 10 while playing for continental cups and 4 goals for local cups.  Tsygankov is a dynamic goalscoring inverted right-winger; something in short supply at the elite level. Similar to Domenico Berardi, Tsygankov prefers to cut inside on his stronger left-foot into the half-space before making a key-pass or shooting at goal.  Tsygankov has not forged his reputation as a one-dimensional player, and possesses speed, technical ability and flair to bamboozle the opposition. Although he’s primarily left-footed, Tsygankov is extremely comfortable shooting with or moving onto his right, making him much harder to defend against. 

He has scored 11 goals, which is quite good for a winger. He is only behind Dovbyk, who has 14 goals to his name.

Tsygankov has 2 assists to his name. He is behind Oliver Thill, who has 7 assists to his name.

From the above dashboard, Viktor Tsygankov has been compared to players from Top 5 League. He dries up on goals and assists, as there are many players with higher goals. However, he ranks quite high on defensive duties. He tracks behind to help his fellow teammates out of sticky spots. He has a high amount of touches in the defensive area. 


Viktor Tsygankov has been linked with Leicester City.With Leicester looking for a goal scoring winger, Tsygankov fits the signing profile as an exciting up and coming talent who will complement Harvey Barnes. Although best cutting in from the right, Tsygankov can also play on the left as well as up front. 

Follow the link for article

 https://link.medium.com/NnIB0JhjMnb