Pairing star players is the ultimate goal of any NBA general manager. The more the better, even if it often means gutting the roster and sacrificing the future at the chance of immediate success.

It worked for the Los Angeles Lakers when they paired Anthony Davis with LeBron James (for one season, at least), as even winning one title together should be considered a success.

Looking ahead to this offseason, here's a guess as to what superstars may be available, what franchises they could join to create the newest superteam and what a trade might look like.

LaMelo Ball, Rudy Gobert Turn Charlotte into Lob City 2.0

Trade Idea: Utah Jazz trade Rudy Gobert to Charlotte Hornets for Gordon Hayward, PJ Washington, Mason Plumlee and a 2022 first-round pick

New Superteam Core: LaMelo Ball, Rudy Gobert, Miles Bridges (RFA), Terry Rozier and Kelly Oubre Jr.

As the nation watches the Utah Jazz crumble to pieces at the hands of the Dallas Mavericks, it seems inevitable that major roster changes are coming.

Should Gobert become available, the Hornets are the first team that should make a call for the three-time Defensive Player of the Year.

Charlotte ranked 22nd overall defensively (113.1 rating) this season and 27th in rebounding (48.6 percent). Gobert led the NBA in glass-cleaning (14.7 rebounds per game, 25.0 rebound percentage) and has a sparkling career swing rating of plus-8.4 points per 100 possessions.

Pairing Gobert with LaMelo Ball, one of the best lob passers in the NBA today, would help maximize the 29-year-old center's offensive game as well.

With Ball making his first All-Star team this season and on his way to becoming a superstar, this Hornets team would suddenly be packed with talent and more well-rounded overall. Bridges (20.2 points, 7.0 rebounds, 3.8 assists) should be back on a hefty new deal as a restricted free agent, while Rozier and Oubre give Charlotte plenty of offensive firepower.

Read more
https://bleacherreport.com/articles/2955502-nba-trade-ideas-to-create-the-next-superteams