Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday kept his attacks on the Congress party. 

Replying to the debate on motion of thanks to the President's address in the Rajya Sabha, Modi was unsparing on the Congress. 

Why is on an attacking spree? The BJP is in direct fight with three of the five poll-bound states. Uttar Pradesh, Punjab, Uttarakhand, Goa and Manipur are going to polls in February and March. 

Out of these, the BJP and the Congress are locked in straight fight in Goa, Uttarakhand and Manipur. While the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) is the main challenger to the Congress in Punjab, the BJP is up against the Samajwadi Party in Uttar Pradesh. 

Modi's speech indicated that the electoral battle may actually be close. 

He blamed the Congress for keeping Goa under Portuguese rule for almost 15 years after India's Independence in 1947.

He further claimed that India's first Prime Minister Pandit Jawaharlal Nehru was more worried about his international image than Goa. 

The coastal state goes to polls on February 14. While some opinion polls have predicted a hung assembly, others have given an edge to the Congress due to 10-year of anti-incumbency against the ruling BJP. 

In 2017, despite being the single largest party, the Congress failed to form the government in Goa. The BJP under Manohar Parrikar managed to snatch victory from the jaws of defeat. 

"This year is the 60th anniversary of Goa’s Liberation. The way Sardar Patel took initiative for Hyderabad and Junagadh, if lessons were taken from it, Goa would not have had to stay in slavery for 15 more years. Goa would have been liberated much earlier. The media reports from back then will tell you that the then Prime Minister (Jawahar Lal Nehru) was concerned about his international image. That is why, he, Nehru thought that if Goa’s foreign government was attacked, his image of a peace-loving global leader would have been harmed. So he let Goa suffer. When our fellow Indians, satyagrahis were being fired upon, he said that he will not send our Army,” Modi said in the Rajya Sabha.