The late Australian cricketer Shane Warne had shared about his experience while he got down with the virus covid 19 in August last year. He said that he was put on the ventilator for a short period.
His death was announced in the morning hours of Saturday as per the Australian Eastern Daylight Time where his management confirmed with his death and which was due to a "suspected heart attack". 

Last year during August, Warne had contracted with Covid 19. He had taken both the doses of vaccine and later after a month he was affected with the virus. He revealed that since his condition during Covid had worsened he had to seek the support of the ventilator. 

"It wasn't because I could not breathe, or anything like that, it was basically a special ventilator that I was trialling to make sure there were no longer-lasting effects that Covid would have on me," Warne had told the Herald Sun. "I have been fine, I have been able to run, I have been able to do everything. I have been absolutely fine," he said. 

"It was a bit like a hangover, I had a pounding headache. The first couple of days, when I tested positive, I just had a thumping headache and I had one day where I had the shivers, but (was) sweating, like when you have the flu," Warne told The Herald Sun. 

"I lost a bit of sense of taste for a few days, but after three or four days I was fine. I have apparently got the holy grail. I have been double vaccinated and I have had Covid, so I am meant to be absolutely fine now." 

Considered one of the greatest bowlers of all time, Warne took over 1000 internatioal wickets in an illustrious 15-year-career. After retiring in 2007, Warne embarked on a succesfull stint as a commentator and also led Rajasthan Royals to victory in the inaugural season of the Indian Premier League (IPL), for which he briefly came out of retirement, as their captain. 


Source - https://www.google.com/amp/s/www.hindustantimes.com/cricket/shane-warne-when-australian-great-revealed-that-he-was-put-on-ventilator-during-battle-with-covid19-101646405690379-amp.html