Sleep is one of the most needed element in one's day to day life. And when it comes to the sleep cycle for children, a new study shows that young children who are transitioning to kindergarten can benefit from 10 hours of sleep per night. 

The researchers of the study says that children who get 10 hours or more of sleep at night had an easier time during their first kindergarten year socially and emotionally. 

The study also shows that children who had good amounts of sleep had a better learning engagement and performed better academically than kids who got sleep less than 10 hours at night. 

Michelle Hintz, PsyD, a child and family psychologist in Florida, told Healthline that,  “These findings are more confirmation of the widely held position that sleep is essential to our overall functioning," "Sleep is important for helping regulate our appetite, hormones, and immune system. For children, sleep also contributes to emotional regulation, frustration tolerance, and general mood. Every parent can attest to knowing when their child is overtired and that is no fun.” 

Getting more than 10 hours of sleep at night was important than total sleep in 24 hours. 

“What constitutes ‘good’ sleep or enough sleep is complex and different for each person and child,” Diamond told Healthline. “When looking at this study, or any study, it’s important to remember that correlation doesn’t equal causation. It’s not surprising to see that consistently getting 10 hours or more of sleep each night was related to better kindergarten outcomes because we do know how important sleep is for social interaction, learning, mood, and physical well-being.” 

“However, there are limitations on how much we can conclude that this is causation based on the study,” she added. “There could be other factors contributing to better sleep and better school adjustment, for example. The study is also relatively small, so while it’s great to see data that helps support how important sleep is for kids, we can’t generalize too much. Sleep is important, but it’s just one piece of the bigger puzzle of kids’ health.” 

Sources - Healthline