An estimated 90 million to 100 million Americans will tune in to watch the Super Bowl this Sunday. Unlikely to be mentioned during the festivities is this sobering but significant side note: Athletes participating in collision sports are among those at highest risk for concussion.

That risk is not limited to professional football. Researchers estimate that 4 million sports and recreation-related concussions occur in the U.S. every year, across all sports and all levels of play and in both games and practices. They happen to athletes and kids playing basketball and soccer and weekend warriors who bicycle and ski. But thousands of concussions also result from car accidents, slips and trips or other blows to the head.

I have been researching brain injuries for nearly a quarter-century. Across the globe, hundreds more researchers like me have dedicated their careers to understanding concussions and traumatic brain injuries – and, most critically, how to prevent and treat them. While tremendous progress has been made, much more remains to be done.

The backstory

When I began my career, concussions were broadly viewed as “getting your bell rung.” It was not uncommon for an athlete who had been knocked out to be sent back into a game within 20 minutes of injury.

The devastating results of repeat concussions without appropriate treatment led to the adoption of sweeping legislation that specifically addressed youth sports concussions.

That legislation, enacted between 2009 and 2014, is law in all 50 states. Although it varies from state to state, youth athletes now receive annual education on concussions. Those suspected of having a concussion must be removed from play, and concussed athletes can’t play their sport until cleared by a medical professional.

In 2005, researchers discovered the first case of chronic traumatic encephalopathy in a former professional football athlete. 

Read more at The Conversation: https://theconversation.com/the-risk-of-concussion-lurks-at-the-super-bowl-and-in-all-other-sports-176541

Image Credits: https://www.gettyimages.com/detail/news-photo/tom-brady-of-the-tampa-bay-buccaneers-calls-the-play-during-news-photo/1300905188?adppopup=true