Indian Premier League, the shortest version of the Indian domestic cricket league, is a carnival by all means. 

It has festivities, adrenalie rush, loads of money, over dose of celebrity presence and huge fan following. Not to mention the rich men and women who own these clubs, adding to the clout of Indian cricket board, one of the richest sporting bodies in the world. 

Does this limit the ambitions of young players in a country where the game is a religion? 
Dont forget that cricket isalso one of the very games where a sportsperson can make a very decent living? 

As the IPL 2022 has come to an end, former India captain Sunil Gavaskar has brought up the crucial point about players suffering from the 'second-season' syndrome. 

The term is used to describe a player who fails to repeat his exploits from the last season such as Venkatesh Iyer, Ruturaj Gaikwad and Varun Chakravarthy. 

All three of these players played out a remarkable IPL 2022 but couldn't quite produce a repeat this season as all three of their franchises failed to qualify for the Playoffs.

Weighing in on the same Hindustan Times reported that, Gavaskar mentioned that in order to pass a true verdict about a player, it is always advised to gauge the cricketer's performances at least across two IPL seasons before coming up with a concrete judgment. 
It's a very valid point. 
But to make a sport popular, players need to see money and future. In a country such as India where majority or sports persons come from very poor background, this is all the more important. In this context, money is something which is a big drew for increasing the base and talent pool. The IPL brings that aplenty along with the opportunity for many youngsters to rub shoulders with the best in the world in the dressing room.

So in the balance, I think, IPL does more good than harm. Though Sunil Gavasakar is one of the greatest players of the game ever, he belongs to a different time zone in the history of the evolution of cricket as a huge spectator sport. 

What you all think?