by Francesca Marino

“The Baloch Liberation Army once again warns China to immediately halt its exploitation projects and refrain from aiding the occupying Pakistani state. Otherwise, our future attacks will be even harsher. Hundreds of highly trained male and female members of Baloch Liberation Army’s Majeed Brigade are ready to carry out deadly attacks in any part of Balochistan and Pakistan. We want to tell Pakistan to immediately stop Baloch genocide, peacefully withdraw from Balochistan and recognise Baloch motherland’s independence, or else be ready for further attacks”. This is how BLA claimed responsibility for the attack on the Confucius Institute at Karachi University.

( Link https://youtu.be/LT2xdLE4y0o)

This is the third time BLA has attacked Chinese targets in Karachi: the first was in 2018 at the local Chinese Consulate, the second in 2020 at the Pakistan Stock Exchange, where the Chinese have major investments. Chinese were also the target of the attack, in 2019, at the Pearl Continental hotel in Gwadar, and the Chinese were killed in 2021 in another attack in Gwadar.


After all, Islamabad sold Balochistan to the Chinese: telling Beijing they could easily manage a few rioters funded by the usual ‘foreign powers’, and the only way out they could conceive was escalating the repression against Baloch, the human rights violations, the level of violence permeating any aspect of life in the region. And the Chinese gave them a good hand, trying to adopt in Balochistan the same strategies they adopted in Xinjiang, including showing happy people playing golf in Gwadar. With the only result of creating a new generation of fighters even more motivated than their elders.
The truth is, Baloch are in arms, more than ever, and are not going to give up. Islamabad tries to silence the press about military operations carried by BRAS, the umbrella uniting all the guerrilla groups, almost every day. The region is sealed for journalists and independent observers, but the reality on the ground still filters out of the region.

Read the full story here:- https://theprobe.in/karachi-suicide-bombing-why-violence-may-not-be-in-the-interest-of-baloch-movement/