Next week, Prime Minister Narendra Modi is scheduled to officially open a 2,600-bed new private hospital that is outfitted with cutting-edge technology, including a centralised, fully automated laboratory, patient-centric wards, and OPDs. The hospital was built on a vast, 130-acre campus with sustainability in mind.

The six-year construction of the cutting-edge Amrita Hospital, which contains a dedicated seven-story research building, was overseen by the Mata Amritanandmayi Math. The prime minister is scheduled to officially open the hospital on August 24.

The new super speciality hospital will debut with 500 beds and is planned to reach full functioning over the course of the following five years. Once fully operating, the hospital with 81 specialties is billed to be the largest hospital in India. 

The idea was first conceived in 2012, and according to Dr. Sanjeev K. Singh, Resident Medical Director of the hospital, the first goal was to put it in Delhi; however, it was ultimately decided to establish it in Faridabad. 

The project's foundational work, which had begun in mid-2016, was delayed by a number of causes, including the purchase of farmland, and was severely stopped during the lockdowns brought on by the COVID-19 epidemic.

"However, Covid also taught us lessons, and some of the designs were redrawn and certain elements were incorporated to make the hospital environment safer for people as Covid infection is now being assumed to spread largely through droplets or air. So, we have built something called a negative pressure room - a kind of an an isolation room, in which suspected cases can be kept away from others. This is different from a regular isolation room," he told PTI in an interview.

In such rooms, the air pressure inside the room is lower than the air pressure outside it and non-contaminated filtered air can flow into the negative pressure room, while contaminated air is sucked out of the room with exhaust systems, which are built with filters that clean the air before it is pumped out and away from a healthcare facility, the doctor explained.

"Besides, our system attempts to make the process as contactless as possible. So, every doctor will have a dedicated digital tablet, meaning it can't be shared with others, which will have all the details and history of patients. This step is also in line with the vision of sustainability in the project to make it as paperless as possible, " he added.

Amrita Hospital is the second hospital built under the aegis of the Mata Amritanandmayi Math in the country, the first being set up in Kochi in 1998.