According to Italian transfer expert, Fabrizio Romano, Newcastle United have agreed a deal in the region of €40 million with Lyon for their Brazilian midfielder Bruno Guimaraes. The Brazilian who is on International duty, will undergo medical in his homeland.


Newcastle are on the verge of making their third signing of the January after getting Chris Wood and Kieran Trippier.


Indeed, the Brazilian is one of the most sought-after commodities in the transfer market and has garnered some serious interest among the top clubs across Europe, with Bayern Munich, PSG and Real Madrid keeping close track of his progress. Arsenal have also shown interest in signing him, but it is Newcastle United who have stepped forward with a formal bid and look to be closing in on securing the 24-year-old’s signature.


Having conceded a whopping 43 times in the league after 22 games, central defensive reinforcements is a priority for Newcastle. 


Bruno Guimaraes is very much a hybrid central midfielder,but he plays more like a playmaker gifted with supreme passing and line-breaking ability.


In Guimaraes, Howe will have a midfield workhorse who can complement the attributes of his current roster very well and would offer stability in front of the backline.

In ball touches and carrying he ranks high. He amasses 88.60 per 90 touches and 67.61 per 90 in carries.

He is a good ball progressor, putting him in the first quadrant with him ranking 8.13 in progressive carries per 90 and having a percentile of 98, and 7.49 in progressive passes per 90 and having percentile of 98. Him being a hybrid player, he is a playmaker too.

Bruno fares well in defense splitting passes. He ranks 1.40 per 90.




The below radar will tell us what NewCastle will get, if the deal goes through. He ranks 96 percentile in successful pressures and 97 percentile in winning the tackle.

Newcastle will have a gem on their hands if they manage to get Bruno Guimaraes. Nothing is confirmed yet, with Arsenal, Manchester United and PSG keeping a close eye on the situation, it will be one hell of a transfer Window.