Australia's Eleanor Patterson has won gold in the women's high jump at the world athletics championships in Eugene, Oregon.

Patterson equalled the national record of 2.02 metres to top the podium, defeating Ukraine's Yaroslava Mahuchikh on countback.

Another Australian, Nicola Olyslagers, was equal fifth with a clearance of 1.96m.

It is Australia's second medal of the world championships, with Nina Kennedy collecting bronze in the women's pole vault final.

Patterson is the first Australian to win the event at a world championships or Olympics.

Her performance in Eugene bettered by two centimetres her previous personal best, which she set while winning silver at the indoor world championships in March.

Patterson and Mahuchikh were the only athletes to clear 2.02m. The Australian achieved it with her first jump, while the Ukrainian needed two attempts.

Both missed three times at 2.04m, ensuring Patterson walked away with the gold.

"It's crazy, [jumping] 2.02, I don't know what happened," Patterson said.

"So many girls went two metres it was a phenomenal performance from everyone. I'm so thrilled to clear 2.02.

"I'm so proud of myself and my team."

Italy's Elena Vallortigara took the bronze with a clearance of 2.00m.

Olympic and multiple world champion Mariya Lasitskene did not compete because of the ban on Russian athletes in Eugene.

A world youth champion in 2013, Patterson enjoyed success at the senior level at the age of just 18 when she won gold at the 2014 Commonwealth Games in Glasgow.

The following year she was eighth at the world titles in Beijing but failed to qualify for the final at the 2016 Rio Olympics.

Patterson, who grew up in Leongatha in rural Victoria, took some time away from the sport in the years leading up to the Tokyo Olympics.

She eventually returned and enjoyed career-best form, highlighted when she was fifth in the final at last year's Tokyo Games, with Olyslagers winning silver.

Patterson's 2022 campaign already included a first-place finish at the Stockholm Diamond League meet in addition to her silver at the world indoor titles in Belgrade.