When Marquinhos arrived from Sao Paulo, many questioned the move. Clips of the young Brazilian in action circulated the Web, with many questioning the players ability. Was this a move simply to create a relationship between the clubs?
However, when Marquinhos scored his first goals for the Arsenal U21s, the talent was evident. Arsenal's failure to acquire a further winger in the Summer represented an opportunity for a young player to make his presence known.
On Thursday night, that opportunity presented itself, in the form of Arsenal's first Europa League group game against FC Zurich.
The young Brazilian was handed his senior Arsenal debut, starting in Bukayo Saka's usual right-wing position. Within minutes, the winger showed just a hint of that talent Arsenal had spotted when scouting him.
Delivering a beautiful, floated cross into his compatriot Gabriel Martinelli, a cross that should've been converted. Marquinhos didn't stop there though, and got his first goal for the club within just 20 minutes. Arsenal broke quickly after winning the ball back, and Eddie Nketiah was unleashed down the left. Marquinhos made a lung-busting run to position himself for a cross, and was rewarded when the cross came in.
The winger stroked the ball into the top corner on his weaker right-foot, and was brought to tears in his celebration. 
In the second half, the two players combined for Arsenal's winner. This time Marquinhos turned provider, floating another ball into the box. This one, similar to his cross in the first half, rose to the back-post, where Nketiah was on hand to turn it home. 
The 19-year-old made way for Saka shortly after, but has made his presence well known.
Martinelli was signed in 2019 in similar circumstances to Marquinhos. The Brazilian arrived and made an instant impact, through the Europa League. Martinelli has been a revelation for Arsenal ever since, going from strength to strength. It's early days, but Marquinhos appears to share the same hunger and talent that saw Arsenal fans fall in love with their other young Brazilian.