Northeast United are set to take on Hyderabad FC at their home Indira Gandhi Athletic Stadium in Guwahati on October 13 (Thursday). The reigning champions Hyderabad will be playing the second match of the Matchday 2 against Northeast United who finished tenth the previous season. 
Both the teams are yet to taste victory this season as Hyderabad played an entertaining 3-3 draw against Mumbai in their first game and Northeast faced a dramatic defeat with head coach Marco Balbul being shown the marching orders.
Northeast played exceptionally well in their first game but had to face the controversial defeat. Their strength in defence is quite strong and might be fruitful in the tournament. Hyderabad, lacking their defensive coordination, will be looking to capitalize on their defensive mistakes, who conceded three goals against the Islanders in their previous game.
Match Details :-
Northeast United FC vs Hyderabad FC 
Date and Time - 13th October, 7:30 PM IST
Venue - Indira Gandhi Athletic Stadium, Guwahati.
Northeast United vs Hyderabad FC  :- Predicted line-ups:-
NorthEast United: Arindam Bhattacharya (GK); Mohammed Irshad, Gaurav Bora, Michael Jakobsen (C), Gurjinder Kumar; Jon Gaztanaga, Romain Philippoteaux, Emanuel Lalcchanchhuaha; Gani Nigam, Jithin Subran, Matt Derbyshire.
Hyderabad FC: Laxmikant Kattimani (GK); Nikhil Poojari, Odei Onaindia, Chinglensana Singh, Manoj Mohammed; Joao Victor (C), Hitesh Sharma; Joel Chianese, Mohammad Yasir, Halicharan Narzary, Bartholomew Ogbeche.
Match Prediction:- Northeast United 1-3 Hyderabad FC. 
NorthEast United vs Hyderabad's head to head record shows that of the 6 meetings they've had, NorthEast United has won 1 times and Hyderabad has won 4 times. 1 fixtures between NorthEast United and Hyderabad has ended in a draw.
Hyderabad is way ahead in the race and will like to retain it. Northeast lacks in their attacking ability is expected to register their first win. 
Northeast United vs Hyderabad FC   : Live telecast details:-
The seventh match of ISL this season between Hyderabad FC and Northeast United will be telecasted on Star Sports and Star Sports HD TV channels in India from 7:30 PM onwards.