The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) snatched victories from jaws of defeat in the Rajya Sabha elections in Maharashtra and Haryana. 

In Maharashtra, the ruling Shiv Sena-NCP-Congress alliance suffered a jolt as the main opposition BJP won three of the six Rajya Sabha seats. 

The BJP winners include Union minister Piyush Goyal, former state minister Anil Bonde, and Dhananjay Mahadik. Shiv Sena’s ubiquitous face Sanjay Raut, NCP’s Praful Patel, a former union minister, and Congress’ Imran Pratapgarhi also won the fiercely-fought elections. Former MP Dhananjay Mahadik of the BJP defeated Shiv Sena’s Sanjay Pawar for the sixth seat.

“Elections are contested not just for the fight, but the victory. Jai Maharashtra,” tweeted BJP’s Devendra Fadnavis, the leader of the opposition whose refusal to have consensus candidates for the Rajya Sabha forced elections in the state for the Upper House of Parliament after 24 years.

In Haryana, the Congress suffered a major setback in Haryana where BJP’s Krishan Lal Panwar and the ruling party-backed Independent candidate Kartikeya Sharma won the two seats while the grand old party’s Ajay Maken, a former union minister, lost. Returning Officer R K Nandal said Panwar got 36 votes, while Sharma got 23 first preference votes and 6.6 votes transferred by the BJP, taking his tally to 29.6. It was a photo-finish as Maken got 29 votes, but lost on account of having failed to secure any second preference votes.

Congress legislator and authorised polling agent BB Batra said while the vote of a party MLA was declared invalid, Kuldeep Bishnoi cross-voted for Sharma, a media baron who had entered the poll fray as an Independent candidate supported by the BJP and its ally JJP.

Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar later said, “I thank all those MLAs who voted for BJP candidate and the Independent candidate. This in a way is a victory for people of Haryana and a victory of democracy.” On Bishnoi voting for Sharma, Khattar said, “He voted listening to his inner conscience. I can say that he must have voted after being influenced by policies and achievements of Modi government. He did not bother what action the Congress will take”.