#2 Finding the goalscoring rhythm
There was never any doubt that when Sadio Mane decided to leave Liverpool for Bayern in the summer, they were bound to face problems in front of goal. The rhythm that was established between Mane-Salah-Firmino and later by players like Diego Jota and Luis DIas was going to be hampered. It is certainly true that Liverpool have found it tough to score goals but it is only a matter of time before the forwards find the much needed flair. With proper supply from the midfield and the full-backs, Liverpool can challenge any defence that they go up against in Europe. 
Another important factor will be star signing Darwin Nunez getting his goalscoring form back. The former Benfica striker has had a rough patch settling into English football conditions but as his past seasons suggest, he is a prolific goalscorer in European competitions. Moreover the recent 9-0 thrashing against Bournemouth shows that Liverpool has still got the ability to tear apart defences. 
#3 The Jugren Klopp mantra in Europe
It is a fact that Liverpool in the past has elevated its football under Jurgen Klopp. The German manager has been heavily influential in lifting a side that was out of European places in 2015 to winning every trophy that was available for the club since the Europa League final loss in his first season. He has built a champion side and has been able to retain most of its core over the years. Liverpool have made it to 3 Champions League Finals in his tenure. Thus it is clear that the progress is supposed to continue. 
Even though they have faced a rocky start to the Premier League season, past seasons have shown that Liverpool’s European efforts are unaffected by domestic form. In the 2017-18 season, the Merseyside team came third in the league and yet managed to reach the final and in the following season after a draining 1 point loss to champions Man City for the Premier League title, they were able to lift the UCL trophy beating Spurs in the final. 