Jana Gana Mana, is a thought provoking political thriller brilliantly directed by Dijo Jose Antony. The starring involves Prithviraj (Aarvind Swami) , Suraj (Sajjan Kumar)and Mamta (Saba Mariyam) on lead roles with strong supporting actors like Vincy (Gouri), Dhruvan (Shaheen), Shari (Shabana Mariyam) ,Vaishnavi (Sana Mariyam) and many more. 

The movie addresses on some main problems and cases that the country have recorded in the decade. 

The movie gives a sitting at the edge of the seat experience with a strong story line and an outstanding casting. Each role is done at its best that speaks out the emotions through their performance. 

The movie is pitched on a death of a college professor through which it unfolds layers of problems and truths that happens around the country. It feels like three or four movies are put together by addressing several cases at one go. 

The background score, cinematography and all the other departments have put in their best into this movie and the efforts are very well seen throughout the movie. 

Now there are some real life incidents that are addressed in the film and few of them are as the following: 

Anti-CAA Protests 

During the exposition, the scenes charging into a University campus where students are protesting for justice brought back memories of visuals from Jamia Millia that happened during the CAA protests. 

Hyderabad Disha encounter case 

A case from Hyderabad in November 2019 where a young veterinary doctor was kidnapped and gangraped and burned to death. The four was arrested and was killed during the encounter. The essence of this case have laid the foundation to the movie and it was discussed and debated throughout the movie

Adivasi man beaten to death 

The protagonist discusses about an Adivasi man who was beaten to death for stealing food. Madhu, 30 years old who was a tribal from Attapadi was accused of stealing and was beaten by a group of men. He passed away while he was taken to the hospital in the police jeep. 

There are more real life incidents discussed in this movie and a theatre experience is a must for this movie to get all the chills.