
The National Investigation Agency on September 22, launched a nationwide search operation across 10 states against the leaders and members of Popular front of India (PFI). 
More than 100 people linked to the PFI, has been arrested on grounds of terror funding, organising training camps and radicalising people to join proscribed organisations. 
Earlier this month, NIA conducted searches at 38 locations in Telangana and at two locations in Andhra Pradesh in the case related to Abdul Khader of Nizamabad, Telangana along with other 26 persons. It seized incriminating materials including digital devices, documents, two daggers and ₹8,31,500 in cash. 
The roots of PFI goes back to 2006, a rebranded form of Students Islamic movement of India (SIMI), which got banned previously. 
It later expanded with time through the merger of 3 Muslim organisations in South- The national Democratic Front in Kerala, The Karnataka forum for dignity and The Manithan Nidhi pasarai in Tamil Nadu, and other organizations from various parts of India. 
PFI has been involved in carrying out actions against muslim violence, job reservations, social and Islamic religious work among Muslims. 
Being more prominent in Kerala, PFI was repeatedly accused of Murder, writing intimidation and having links with terrorist organisations. 
It came to spotlight after 2010 incident in Kerala, where hand of a college professor was chopped off, for allegedly hurting religious sentiments by teaching a blasphemous story. 
Then in 2013, PFI members were found receiving training in bomb making and use of swords in Kerala. 
In 2014, the Kerala government approached the high court saying that "the PFI had a Clandestine agenda of Islamisation of society, and was involved in communally motivated murders. 
In 2016, NIA arrested some PFI members for setting up of new jihadist group similar to Islamic state, in Kerala. 
Their involvement was seen in violence in Uttar Pradesh during the Anti Citizenship Amendment act protests in 2020. 
NIA revealed on Friday that the organisation was receiving funds from some of its members from abroad. 
Subsequently, the followers of PFI are likely to form another organisation with the same motives if PFI gets banned, they said.