For someone who has grown up in Delhi, this city has undoubtedly become a part of me. From reading about the rich history, culture, and heritage that Delhi has, to experiencing each of these; something about this place feels exceptionally comfortable. But that's not only it. As people often call it a foodie's paradise, you will find nooks and corners bustling with food stalls, small restaurants, cafes, and so much more. And surprisingly, each food place will also offer you a new taste. While we can go on and on about Delhi's street food, the one thing you should surely be exploring this time is the city's oldest running restaurants. These legendary places not only offer you delicious food, but you will discover a whole new Delhi in them! So, this week, if you plan to go out for a meal, choose from any of these epic places.
1. Kwality
If you are looking for a lavish dining experience, lip-smacking food and an overall luxurious vibe, nothing seems better than Kwality! Established in the 1940's, this restaurant offers you classic north Indian and Mughlai food. 
2.Moti Mahal, established in 1947, is said to be independent India's first restaurant. It is said that this place introduced the flavours of tandoori and Peshawar cuisine to the country. The place has lavish interiors and delicious food that is a must-try!
3.Wenger'sThis is the oldest bakery in Delhi, dating back to 1924. It serves waffles, pies, cakes, pastries, burgers, paninis, hotdogs, salads, and much more. Wenger's began as a catering service in 1924. In 1926, confectionery was established.
4. Hotel Kake Da Hotel is another one of the favourite places for many Delhiites. Since 1931, this restaurant has ruled our hearts with its delectable meals. The aroma of the meal, particularly their butter chicken and dal makhani will entice you to place an order!
5.Karim'sIf you are a fan of Mughlai food and want to get your hands on the authentic taste, Karim's is the place to go! Nestled in the middle of Chandni Chowk, Karim's is not only a hot spot for Delhiites but many tourists as well.