By Nisha Qureshi 

Slowing demand and inflation are unlikely to deter the advertising expenditure of brands during the upcoming festive season as new product launches and festive offers are coming to the rescue.

Industry experts predict that a lot of this adex would be spent around the big-ticket sporting events that are planned during the festive season. Properties such as the T20 World Cup and FIFA World Cup will keep the advertisers’ interest intact.  


According to Shashi Sinha, CEO, IPG Mediabrands, the Diwali season has traditionally been very important for the industry as 35-40% of advertising spends come in the months between September and December. He said this year while there are signs of slow economic growth because of inflation, it will be a decent festive season because of new launches, marquee tv properties etc.

“There are big opportunities like India vs Australia Test series, T20 World Cup, FIFA World Cup etc. Even though the FIFA World Cup is for niche audiences, there is a big following among the young audiences aged 15-35. We also have all these channels putting out their big shows in these four months,” Sinha said.


Shekhar Banerjee, Chief Client Officer and Office Head – West, Wavemaker India, stated, “Inflation is taking a serious beating on consumer sentiment. However, the festive season is an absolute steroid for the market. We should also remember festive is coinciding with the T20 World Cup. Between TV and digital, we will see strong demand for ad inventory in this period. Festive brings in a whole set of seasonal advertisers, so don’t expect any surprises here versus the last year. We need to be more cautious about the lull period post-festive, expect a softer close to the year versus the previous year.”

Ramsai Panchapakesan, Senior VP and National Head - Integrated Media Buying, Zenith, also said that India’s spending pattern is traditionally skewed towards the festive season as almost 40% of the spends are planned for this period.

Read more
https://bestmediainfo.com/2022/07/big-ticket-sports-events-new-product-launches-to-drive-festive-season-adex