Ozone is a gas in the lower level of stratosphere. It is a kind of super-charged oxygen (O3). It makes a layer in the atmosphere which acts as a cover to the Earth against ultraviolet radiation of the Sun. The canopy of ozone layer is with variable extent less dense near the surface of the Earth compared to the height of 30 km.Some pollutants in the atmosphere like chlorofluoro-carbons (CH3) cause the depletion of ozone layer. These CFCs and other similar ‘gases when reach to the stratosphere they are broken down by the ultraviolet radiation and as a result they liberate free atoms of chlorine or bromine. These atoms are highly reactive with ozone and disrupt the stratospheric chemistry. The reactions deplete ozone layer.

Due to depletion of ozone layer, the Earth is exposed to the ultra-violate radiation. These rays cause harmful effect to living beings on the Earth. It affects process of photosynthesis in plants. Rise in the temperature, various skin diseases, decrease of immunity etc are the probable results.The Montreal Protocol plans to phase out the use of CFCs and other ozone depleting substances. It called for the cessation of CFC production by 1996.It is believed that if the international agreement is adhered to, the ozone layer is expected to recover by 2050. Under this protocol a global fund is established to aid those developing nations who cannot afford technological costs for alternative chemicals.The Kyoto Protocol is a protocol to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC or FCCC), aimed at fighting global warming. The Protocol was initially adopted on 11 December, 1997 in Kyoto, Japan, and entered into force on 16 February, 2005. As on September 2011, 191 states have signed and ratified the protocol.

Under the Protocol, 37 countries commit themselves to a reduction of four Green House Gases (GHG) (carbon dioxide, methane, nitrous oxide, sulphur hexafluoride) and two groups of gases (hydrofluorocarbons and perfluorocarbons) produced by them, and all member countries give general commitments.The Kyoto Protocol is a protocol to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC or FCCC), aimed at fighting global warming.