Romelu Lukaku (Chelsea)

There are no surprises here. After becoming Chelsea's new club-record signing this summer, Romelu Lukaku is at the top of the list. In 2011, the Belgian moved from Anderlecht to Stamford Bridge for the first time.

Lukaku was unable to force his way into Chelsea's first team despite being on the books for three years. On loan at West Bromwich Albion and Everton, he made an impression and was later signed permanently.
Chelsea were linked with re-signing him in 2017 after he had three productive years on Merseyside with Everton. Manchester United, on the other hand, was able to sign him, while Chelsea settled for Alvaro Morata.


Paul Pogba (Manchester United)

In 2016, Manchester United made news when they announced that Paul Pogba, a previous academy graduate, would return to the club on a record transfer.

The £89 million paid for him at the time was the largest ever transfer price paid in exchange for a player's services. Pogba has become a contentious figure at Old Trafford since his arrival. The French midfielder has looked the part at times, justifying his record-breaking status.

However, there have been times when Pogba has been branded as a Manchester United player who consistently underperforms. When you combine that with the continual whispers about his future, it's safe to say he's under constant surveillance.


Nicolas Anelka (Paris Saint-Germain)

Nicolas Anelka is another player who has returned to his former club on a record transfer. During his 19-year senior career, the Frenchman played for as many as 12 different teams.

Anelka began his career with Paris Saint-Germain, where he quickly established himself as a promising young player, attracting the attention of Arsenal manager Arsene Wenger. At the age of 17, the striker went to north London and quickly established himself in the Arsenal team during his second season at Highbury.

After scoring 17 goals for the Gunners in the 1998-99 season, Anelka piqued Real Madrid's interest. Anelka never fully settled in Spain after his move, and he even had a falling out with manager Vicente del Bosque.