With the lockdowns during the pandemic there was an evident reduction in the cause of pollution as the number of vehicles being used was low and the nature was rejuvenating. The trees, plants and parks around us were fresh and with this studies from University of Colorado Boulder have found that greenery surroundings have positive impacts on people's mental health.  

It's found that people who were exposed to much greenery space during the first year of the pandemic were reported with less depression and anxiety issues, as stated in the study published in the journal 'PLOS One'. 

The study have explained that people have found comfort in great outdoors with one third time spend than they did pre covid, while they confronted mental health problems that peaked dye to the financial woes, shortage of supplies and news related to the virus. 

For the study, the authors presented about 1,200 Denver-area residents with a 30-minute survey gauging their mental health and their perceptions of green space near their home, including how much there was, whether they could see it, whether it was accessible, how much they used it and its quality. They also collected aerial satellite imagery to objectively quantify greenery in respondents’ neighbourhoods. 

The survey ran from November 2019 to January 2021. 

Once COVID-19 emerged and lockdowns ensued, Reid added additional questions, providing a rare opportunity to also look at how the pandemic influenced mental health over time and what was most stressful about it. 

Those who lost income or felt they were working in an unsafe environment were also more likely to be stressed or depressed, while the strongest source of mental health problems was a fear of supply shortages (including toilet paper and food). 

People who spent a lot of time scrolling the internet looking at the news reported poorer mental health. In contrast, merely having abundant green space nearby, as measured by satellite images, was associated with lower depression scores.
To get the most benefit out of nearby green space, the study found, people had to get out and use it. Those who used green space most had significantly lower anxiety and depression. 

Sources  https://www.sciencedaily.com/releases/2022/03/220302150329.htm 

https://www.google.com/amp/s/m.timesofindia.com/videos/lifestyle/health-fitness/exposure-to-green-outdoors-had-positive-mental-health-impact-during-pandemic-study/amp_videoshow/89982789.cms