Parasuraman is Kerala’s first openly bisexual professor. An assistant professor of English at the University College in Thiruvananthapuram, Parasuraman talks about what it means to be openly bisexual academician and father of two in a conservative society like Kerala.

 

Q.1) You created a flutter in Kerala’s academic circle when you came out as the state’s first openly declared bisexual academic through a Facebook post. What was the immediate reaction from your colleagues and other academicians?

 

The responses that came were very positive. Some people were admiring, appreciative, and even affectionate. And there was one hostile response that was on religious grounds. It was from a Non-Resident Indian in Saudi Arabia. He made negative remarks. But surprisingly, from his own community (he was a Muslim), some four, or five people jumped to my defense on Facebook. Some of them sent me friend requests and some of them sent me apology messages. So the writing on the wall was very clear that the change was happening. 

 

Q.2)What about your family and friends? What was their reaction like?

Ans. My wife knew before our marriage that I was bisexual. I had first revealed that to her. I don’t know how seriously she had taken me. And then you don’t conceal these things from people. I had promised her that I wouldn’t be unfaithful and I kept that promise. And so long as I was with her, I kept that promise. And well for my friends, a couple of them had expressed disappointment that I didn’t talk to them before coming out. But by and large, my friends were also extremely supportive. And my nieces (my sisters’ daughters), were extremely supportive and admiring. So, on the whole, it was very good. It was definitely a world I had travelled since, even since the mid-90s and late 90s.

(Continues) 
 

The interview is a part of “The Outing” a podcast series hosted by Sangeeth Sebastian, founder of #VVOX, a platform with a mission to eradicate sexual shame, in association with #Earshot, India’s hottest podcast platform.

 

 

 