By Sayantan Ghosh

The Panchayat poll is just around the corner in Bengal. Meanwhile, the opposition BJP is in massive trouble with infighting and a leadership crisis. Amid the growing discontent within the Bengal unit of the BJP, the party's national president, JP Nadda, was on a two-day in Kolkata on June 8-9. 

According to BJP insiders, Nadda's focus was on developing the SOP for the panchayat polls and negotiating with disgruntled leadership. However, it is an opportunity for the state BJP to turn things around.

In May, Union Home Minister Amit Shah visited Bengal and urged the leaders to strengthen the organisation to fight against Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee-led Trinamool Congress. However, things worsened after his visit. A few weeks back, one of the most prominent BJP MPs, Arjun Singh, who joined the party before the 2019 Lok Sabha elections from the Trinamool Congress, did a Ghar Wapsi.

Meanwhile, the infighting within the Bengal BJP became exposed as the central leadership of the Bharatiya Janata Party wrote a letter to former Bengal BJP chief and national Vice President Dilip Ghosh advising him not to speak in front of the media. However, Ghosh rubbished the advice and continued to interact openly with the media.

At a party meeting in Calcutta on Wednesday, BJP national chief JP Nadda attempted to motivate the Bengal unit in a speech lasting more than 40 minutes, but it was not enough to get five MPs, including three Union ministers, to attend.

During an executive committee meeting at the National Library, Nadda addressed the state's executive committee for the first time since Sukanta Majumdar was named the state's chief and the entire organisation was restructured. Members of Parliament S.S. Ahluwalia and Kunar Hembram were absent, as were union ministers John Barla, Subhash Sarkar, and Shantanu Thakur. A few MLAs and state vice-president Raju Banerjee did not attend.

Read the full story here:- https://www.newsdrum.in/analysis/nadda-in-bengal-why-jp-naddas-bengal-visit-is-significant-for-bjps-political-future-42281.html