With the end of the Cold War era in the early 1990s, the European Union bloc expanded eastwards and the railway network worked in tandem. Removing the iron curtain of the erstwhile Soviet Union, people and goods criss-crossed the continent ushering in economic prosperity and decades-long peace.

That peace and tranquility got shattered in February when Russian troops invaded Ukraine. As the marauding army bombed and shelled with advancing tanks, hordes of Ukrainians—especially children, women and the old – started fleeing the country. Since air-spaces were closed, for most of these would-be refugees, trains became the most important mode of transport.

The trains moved along the same railroads that had once carried soldiers to the warfront in the east during the two World Wars and transported arms in goods vehicles that preceded their arrival. And some of the trains towards Poland ferried Jews to gas chambers and concentration camps of the Nazis.

Last few weeks, octogenarians in Europe were reminded of such tragic dislocations from the past that seemed too distant even a few months ago. Passengers are being ferried across the Chop railway station – a transportation hub that serves as the gateway to Ukraine – to get into Poland, Hungary, Slovakia and Czech Republic, Germany and beyond.

Many private railway networks are providing the migrants a free ride and food while railway stations have turned into temporary shelters.

Meanwhile, all railway lines between Ukraine and Russia have been destroyed by the Ukraine’s armed forces to stall Russian invaders. Ukrainian Railways lamented the fact that the railroads that ferried goods and people to bring economic prosperity now lay in smithereens.    

According to the United Nations refugee commission (UNHCR), over 2 million people have fled Ukraine since the Russian invasion started on February 24, most of them in trains. The only silver lining is that most European countries are receiving the Ukrainian refugees with open arms.  

READ MORE: 

https://www.nytimes.com/2022/03/11/world/europe/ukraine-fighters-refugees-trains.html

https://www.euronews.com/travel/2022/02/28/ukraine-travel-railways-run-extra-train-services-for-people-fleeing-russian-invasion

https://globalnews.ca/news/8666357/hub-ukraine-europes-worst-refugee-crisis/