A Beautiful Mind 

Ron Howard is the director of the movie, it is based on the life of John Forbes Nash Jr. and the screenplay is based on the biography, A Beautiful Mind by Sylvia Nasar. John Nash is a mathematician who discovered a "game theory" which contradicts the century old economic theory. As he gets more and more attention starts to lose control of himself due to schizophrenia. The movie shows how someone tries to overcome such a progressive mental health condition.

Rain Man 

The movie is directed by Barry Levinson. Its a humours movie, the plot follows Charlie (Tom Cruise) and Raymond (Dustin Hoffman) Babbitt, they are brothers in the movie. In the movie Raymond is an autistic savat, a person who is autistic and has single extraordinary area of knowledge or ability. It was one of the first movies that brought light upon autism. 


Black Swan 

The movie is directed by Darren Aronofsky and it shows the onset of schizophrenia. It's a dark psychological thriller and shows how Nina Sayers ( played by Natalie Portman) sufferws from many issues due to the huge pressure of being a professional Ballerina. She pretends she's alright but she feels wraped and tortured in her mind. These things lead to self-harm. She portrays a swarn and scratches her back to behave like on, she doesn't even eat for many days and even stabs herself once
It's a very dark portrait of what can happen if a person strives for perfection while neglecting her/his mental health.

Good Will Hunting 

Gus Van Sant directed the movie and its written by Matt Damon and Ben Affleck. In the movie Matt Damon plays the role of Will Hunting who is a janitor but is very bright and intelligent. He is given a chance by a professor to something with his life. Will comes from an abusive childhood. He goes to see a therapist on the advice of his professor, the therapist is played by Robin Williams. He's able to heal and come out of depression by his help. Good Will Hunting is a classic movie, it won the Oscar for The Best Original Screenplay.