Scientists are working to develop a "pan-coronavirus" vaccine -- one that offers protection against multiple variants of the coronavirus that causes Covid-19.

The hope is that such a vaccine could pave the way for the development of a universal coronavirus vaccine, which could head off any coronavirus -- not only emerging variants that cause Covid-19, but also some common colds and even the menacing threat of novel coronaviruses we haven't identified yet.

But such vaccines are "going to take years to develop," Dr. Anthony Fauci, director of the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases, said during a White House briefing on Wednesday.

East respiratory syndrome, or MERS; severe acute respiratory syndrome, or SARS; and SARS-CoV-2, the coronavirus that causes Covid-19.

"However, since September of 2020, there have been five SARS-CoV-2 variants of concern: Alpha, Beta, Gamma, Delta and now the current Omicron," Fauci said in Wednesday's briefing.

"So obviously, innovative approaches are needed to induce broad and durable protection against coronaviruses that are known and some that are even at this point unknown," Fauci said. "Hence, the terminology 'pan-coronavirus vaccine.' "

Universal vaccine could help fight variants

During the Covid-19 pandemic, the world has seen several coronavirus variants emerge -- and with some, the effectiveness of current coronavirus vaccines to protect against infection and illness has slightly diminished.

However, public health officials emphasize that it's still important to get vaccinated now.

The current coronavirus vaccines authorized for emergency use or approved in the United States -- from Pfizer/BioNTech, Moderna and Johnson & Johnson -- were developed to target the original wild-type SARS-CoV-2 virus identified at the start of the pandemic.

Although those vaccines have shown effectiveness against infection and illness of around 90% and higher against the wild-type, that effectiveness against some SARS-CoV-2 variants has seen a small dip, dropping to 66% against Delta infections, for instance, and even lower for Omicron. But a third dose of the vaccine -- or a booster shot -- can improve protection against variants.

Read more- https://amp.cnn.com/cnn/2022/01/27/health/universal-coronavirus-vaccine-explainer-wellness/index.html