Interestingly, the 'Veblen Effect' is an illusory psychological strategy that has been in use for generations – for thousands of years. It describes the phenomena wherein consumers perceive higher-priced goods to have greater value and be much better than they actually are … _*simply because they cost more*_!

Ironically, despite all the knowledge, technological advancement as well as awareness and detailed understanding of it, the Veblen Effect continues to persist.

There are many examples … Rolex, Cartier, Bentley, Rolls-Royce, Aston Martin, Louis Vuitton, Christian Louboutin, Harrods, Cristal Champagne, etc.

These products may not be any better, functionally, than their cheaper alternatives, but their high prices alone make them seem better, more valuable and therefore much more desirable.

A story goes thus...

At 23, Julius Caesar was a junior politician on the way up – and he had substantial advantages: Confidence and Brains!

In 75 BCE a band of Cilician pirates in the Aegean Sea captured a 25-year-old Roman nobleman named Julius Caesar, who had been on his way to study oratory in Rhodes. While sailing across the Aegean Sea, he was captured by Sicilian pirates. They demanded a ransom: 20 talents. 

Caesar told them they were being ridiculous. He couldn’t possibly allow himself to be ransomed so cheaply. The pirates hesitated; they were confused. Caesar insisted the ransom must be raised to 50 talents of silver.

Now the pirates had no idea what to make of this. Normally, their captives tried to escape as cheaply as possible.But, if he said he would double the ransom, why argue?

They let Caesar’s men go back to Rome to raise the money. And in Rome, in his absence, Caesar suddenly became very famous and well known. No one had ever been ransomed for such an enormous sum ever before.

People assumed he must be someone very special; he must be incredibly important. Thus did the demand for such an enormous amount of silver for ransom put Caesar on the political map and made him famous.

He had just invented ’The Veblen Effect’ and
Caesar effectively made himself a Veblen brand!