By Shinjinee Majumder

Several images that portray the aftermath of a fire accident have gone viral on social media with the claim that six grocery shops owned by Hindus were set on fire in Kadhurkhil village of Boalkhali Upazila of Chittagong in Bangladesh.

Twitter account Voice Of Bangladesh posted these images with the same claim. The tweet was later deleted. 

(Archived link https://archive.ph/M46kU#selection-599.0-599.15)

Epaper Sanatan Prabhat also reported this story. The report cited the tweet by Voice of Bangladesh as a source.

Facebook page সনাতন একতা মঞ্চ (Sanatan Ekta Manch) posted these images with hashtags #SaveBangladeshiHindhu and #savebangladeshihindustemple. The post has also named three Hindu people- Rony De, Dolon, and Parimal Debnath as the owners of the shops that burned down.

Fact-Check
Through a keyword search of the place mentioned in the viral claims on Google, Alt News found that several Bangladeshi media outlets have reported on this incident.

According to Jago News’ report, on August 2 at around 4 a.m., a massive fire took place near Kadhurkhali Government High School in which five shops and three goats were burnt to ashes. A grocery shop, a salon, two vegetable shops, and a cooling corner were burnt down. Furthermore, several media outlets including Dainik Azadi, Chattogram News, Chattogram Khobor, and Jago News named two of the shop-owners as Md. Muharram and Md. Karim who are Muslims.

We found a video of the incident on Facebook uploaded by a Boalkhali local named S M Arif. The video was uploaded at 8:49 a.m. i.e., four hours after the incident occurred. The video is captioned “আজ ভোরের দিকে কধুরখীল স্কুলের পশ্চিম দিকে থাকা সব দোকান আগুনে পুড়ে গেছে।” (Translation: All the shops on the western side of Kadhurkhil School were burnt down early in the morning today.) Many people inquired the reason behind the fire, to which the user replied that the fire was possibly from an electrical short-circuit.

Read the full story here:- https://www.altnews.in/fact-check-were-grocery-shops-owned-by-hindus-set-on-fire-in-bangladesh/?utm_source=website&utm_medium=social-media&utm_campaign=newpost