Ligue 1 2022/23: Angers will be taking on Strasbourg on Sunday October 9 at the Stade Raymond Kopa in ligue 1. Both the teams are in the lower half of the points table as Angers are 15th and Strasbourg are in 19th position. 
Though having a bad start, Angers are looking to make a comeback as they won back to back matches against Montpellier and Nice. But last weekend they lost against Marseille at home by 3-0. That loss ended a positive period for Angers as they had won two consecutive matches followed by that one, and will now be hoping to get straight back to winning this Sunday.
Strasbourg on the other hand are the only team who are winless this season. They have drawn five of their opening games and lost the other four and are going to face Angers the next. 
Angers though have only beaten Strasbourg only once at the Stade Raymond Kopa in their last five encounters. Angers are also facing defence issues as they have conceded the most number of goals so far in the league. This is quite true at home where they have been defensively weaker, which might make it difficult for heading into this particular fixture.
Match details:
Angers vs Strasbourg 
Date and time: 9th October, 6:30 PM IST
Venue: Stade Raymond Kopa 
Angers vs Strasbourg- Predicted Playing 11:
Angers:- Fofana, Valery, Amadou, Blazic, Doumbia, Mendy, Bentaleb, Ounahi, Hunou, Boufal, Sima
Strasbourg:- Sels, Djiku, Fila, Le Marchan, Pierre-Gabriel, Bellegarde, Diarra, Aholou, Lienard; Gameiro, Diallo
Match prediction:- Anger 1-1 Strasbourg
Angers are more favourites for this game since their position in the points table but their defence is highly vulnerable which might result in a draw as Strasbourg have been carrying a good attacking unit so far this season which might help them register another draw. 
Live telecast details:-
The rights to all Ligue 1 matches have been bought by Viacom 18 network in India. Thus, the match will be available on Indian Television on Sports18 channel and it can be streamed online on Jio TV and Voot. 