A team of Wheelchair Users/DIVYANGJANS undertaking the daunting task of traveling to
Ladakh by their Disabled-Friendly Cars reached chandigarh on Monday evening and left for Amritsar today morning. 

The 16-Day Ladakh Expedition by the DIVYANGJAN was flagged-off from Lucknow by Shri Naveent Sehgal, IAS, Addl. Chief Secretary of Uttar Pradesh on 12th June 2022.

Monday  morning at the Major Dhyan Chand National Stadium, a huge crowd of supporters
from the Differently-Abled Sports Community and Para-Sports/Wheelchair Cricket Players
gathered to See-Off the Expedition Team. The Ladakh Expedition Team consisting of
Wheelchair Cricket India Association's Founder/President and Former Indian Air Force Fighter Pilot, Sqn Ldr Abhai Pratap Singh (Retd.) from Lucknow, Vijay Singh Bisht- Former Indian Wheelchair Cricket Player from Lucknow, Somjeet Singh- Captain of Indian
Wheelchair Cricket Team from Lucknow and Sunil Mangal- Disability Activist from Kanpur,
was also joined by Shri RaviKant Chauhan, Gen. Secy. Of the Differently-Abled Cricket
Council Of India (BCCI approved body) and Member of the Differently-abled Cricket
Committee, BCCI.

Sqn Ldr Abhai Pratap Singh (Retd.) Said,"Our team of Wheelchair Users/Divyangjans will
cover more than 4000 Kilometres of distance during our expedition to Ladakh. A team of
professional videographers is accompanying us with an objective to shoot a documentary
showcasing the grit of Divyangjans and the issues faced by them in their daily life. This if the first of many expeditions planned by WCIA through #DriveWithAbility Campaign and after
Ladakh Expedition in 2022 we will be undertaking 6000+ Kilometer Golden-Quardilateral Circuit in 2023, which is already in the planning stage". 

Sqn Ldr Abhai Pratap Singh (Retd.), a Wheelchair User himself, was Indian Air-Force Fighter Pilot and is Founder/President of
Wheelchair Cricket India Association.
Ravikant Chauhan said,"The issue of accessibility and Disability Awareness is not even noticed the the General Public. Campaigns like these are very important so that society start noticing the Differently-Abled Community and know what issues and challenges are faced by them, then only positive change in the society will follow."