Miami Beach is implementing a midnight curfew after violence that erupted amid a busy spring break weekend put the city "well past its end point," according to the mayor.

The curfew will begin at 12:01 a.m. Thursday and last until 6 a.m. Monday, Mayor Dan Gelber announced during a news conference Monday afternoon.

City Manager Alina Hudak said she would ask for the same curfew the following weekend. A public emergency order, signed by Hudak, will go to the city commission for approval in a special meeting Tuesday, she said.

The curfew and emergency order come after five people were injured in two shootings on Miami Beach's iconic Ocean Drive over the weekend.

"If you want to see what a very frustrated and angry mayor looks like, you're looking at him," Gelber said during the news conference.

"Our city is well past its end point. What we are watching and what we are feeling and what we are observing is simply unacceptable at every level," he said.

A Miami Beach Live concert set for Saturday evening will be rescheduled, Hudak said.

Gelber noted 371 officers were tasked with patrolling the crowds over the weekend.

Since the Spring Break season began in February, nine officers have been injured in some capacity, police Chief Richard Clements said.

Four of those injuries happened over the weekend, the Miami Beach Fraternal Order of Police said in a Twitter post Sunday.

"Officers are EXHAUSTED. The party needs to end. City officials must take immediate and firm action to ensure the safety of officers and residents," the tweet said.

Miami Beach also introduced a curfew last year after officials said crowds of spring breakers brought chaos to the city.

The announcement of the curfew came hours after two people were injured in a shooting in Miami Beach early Monday.

Officers were patrolling the 700 block of Ocean Drive around 1 a.m. when they heard gunfire and located two women who had been injured, police said in a press release. Both were taken to local hospitals with non-life-threatening injuries.

Officers detained two people at the scene and recovered firearms. 

Credit :- CNN