From the world-class exhibits, spectacular events and incomparable arts and culture scene, Canberra is a traveller’s delight! But how much do you really know about Australia’s capital city?

To give you an edge on your next trivia night, we’ve put together some fun facts about the nation’s capital that are sure to amuse and inspire a visit to this standout city.

1. How Canberra got its name

For more than 21,000 years, the Ngunnawal people, the original custodians of the land, considered the Canberra region their home. So it comes as no surprise that its name is derived from their language. Canberra supposedly means either “meeting place” or “women’s breasts.” Thoughformer makes the most sense, a view of the famous Mt Ainslie and Black Mountain gives some veracity to the later.

2. Canberra has 3 sister cities: The Japanese city of Nara, Beijing in China, and Wellington in New Zealand

Established to bolster culture, community, education, and encourage trade and tourism between nations, Sister city relationships have become an important part of Canberra’s rich culture and history.

Nara, the capital of Nara Prefecture in Japan became Canberra’s first sister city in 1993, followed by Beijing, China in 2000, and most recently Wellington, New Zealand in 2016.

3. It’s one of the only places in Australia where you can go on a Hot Air Balloon ride

Blessed with wide open skies and a scenic landscape, Canberra has developed a love for hot air balloon riding. So much so that Canberra has a dedicated festival just for it!

4. You'll find over 30 exceptional wineries in the city's outskirts

Canberra boasts an array of exceptional wineries all within a short drive from the CBD. Producing some of nation’s most outstanding high-country, cool-climate wines, the region has rightfully earned its spot in Lonely Planet’s list of most revered wines trails in Australasia.

5. Canberra has a NASA base !

Located at Tidbinbilla, the Canberra Deep Space Communication Complex is one of three stations in the world. The station provides continuous, two-way radio contact with spacecrafts exploring our solar system and beyond. Its antennas especially play a pivotal role in tracking NASA's Voyager 1 spacecraft