U.S. Northern Command and North American Aerospace Defense Command said unequivocally, during a Defense Writers Group event on April 25 that their commands lack the artificial intelligence capabilities, needed to do their jobs to the fullest and maintain an edge over rival nations, as per the statements of the leader of both organizations.

Pentagon has just a day after that, appointed the Chief Data and Artificial Intelligence Officer in the CDAO office that took shape in February.

Dr Craig Martell will serve as the Defense Department’s new Chief Digital and Artificial Intelligence Officer.

Martell, who most recently served as the head of machine learning at Lyft after AI and machine learning-related positions with LinkedIn and Dropbox, will now serve as the Pentagon’s senior official responsible for the “adoption of data, analytics, digital solutions and AI functions,” according to a Pentagon press statement.

“Advances in AI and machine learning are critical to delivering the capabilities we need to address key challenges both today and into the future,” Deputy Secretary of Defense Kathleen H. Hicks said in a statement. 

“With Craig’s appointment, we hope to see the department increase the speed at which we develop and field advances in AI, data analytics, and machine-learning technology. He brings cutting-edge industry experience to apply to our unique mission set.”

The office is meant to support data-centred and AI-aligned work by DOD’s Joint Artificial Intelligence Center, the office of the chief data officer and the Defense Digital Service.

The Pentagon, when it announced the creation of the CDAO role last December, said the Joint Artificial Intelligence Officer, Chief Data Officer
and Defense Digital Service will all report directly to the CDAO, who will report to Deputy Secretary of Defense Kathleen Hicks.

It is worth noting here that Congress in fiscal 2022 pitched a $200 mn program to boost adoption of AI across combatant commands, dovetailing with the Pentagon’s AI and Data Acceleration, or ADA, initiative to gain a competitive edge over it's arch rivals: Russia and China.