The 8th edition of India’s biggest and toughest offroad motorsport competition kicked off with four teams from Goa set to test their mettle along with the best off-roaders from India at the Rainforest Challenge (RFC) India 2022.
The 42-year-old Goan businessman, Cedric Da Silva, has been participating in RFC India since 2014 and has consistently been in the Top 10 ranking charts.
“I look forward to participating in the event every year. It is six days of continuous off-roading with a lot of tough challenges and vehicle breakdowns, which makes it unlike any other off-roading competition in the country,” Cedric said.
For Ibrahim Firaz Shaik (39), this will be his third attempt and calls it an experience of a lifetime.
“The moment one edition of RFC India gets over, I start thinking how to upgrade my vehicle to improve the performance next year and how to tackle different challenges better. Last year, I was at the sixth position in the overall rankings. This time, I want to be on the podium,” said Shaikh.
For 37-year-old Dattaraj Dessai RFC is just an addiction. 
“I am a loner and don’t interact with people too much. For 360 days of the year, I stay within a close-knit circle and wait for this one week when I can interact with fellow RFC India participants, marshals and organizers,” said Dessai. 
Tejas Shindolkar (40) feels that his three attempts at RFC India have helped him improve his off-roading skills manifold. He said, “It has been a constant learning at RFC India. Every Special Stage has a different type of challenge in store for the competitors.”
Talking about his preparation for the upcoming battle, Cedric said, “July is the only month when I take out time from work to seriously prepare for the competition. I have also done some modifications in my vehicle because we had five breakdowns last year.”
According to Dattaraj, “I am bringing a new vehicle to the competition. I got my modified vehicle two months ago and I have been practicing hard ever since. Nevertheless, we are always in for a surprise when it comes to the Stages that David (Metcalf) prepares.”