Manchester United are on par with equalling their lowest point tally for a season. The Red Devils hit rock bottom under Moyes in 2013/14 as the club only accumulated 64 points, equalling their worst point tally for a calendar year. The club from Manchester is at its lowest, with some fans and pundits alike earmarking it as "The worst team" in the history of Manchester United. From dressing room leaks to their on-field shenanigans, the Red Devils have been in the spotlight for all the wrong reasons. 

With Champions League qualification out of their reach, the best United can hope for is Thursday night, Europa League football. As their newly appointed manager, Eric Ten Hag wouldn't want to start his tenure at Old Trafford playing Conference League Football. Failing to qualify for Europe would also mean limited choices in terms of the availability of players. It is a well-known fact that modern footballers prefer clubs with Champions League football on their CV. 

To add a bit of sunshine to their dull season, United need to produce a result against their modern rivals Chelsea. To keep their hopes of Europa League football alive. The London-based club is going through a crisis of its own. The uncertainty around the future of the club is starting to take a toll on its players. The Blues are also set to lose one of their precious assets in Rudiger for free at the end of this season. 

Things are not going according to the plans for the Blues on the pitch as well. The Champions of Europe were knocked out of the UCL by a mediocre Real Madrid team. Furthermore, the blues suffered a humiliating defeat at the hands of Arsenal in a crunching London Derby. Given Chelsea's problems on and off the pitch, this would be an idle time for United to rub salt on Chelsea's wounds. A win would aid both the teams in regaining their confidence and salvaging their season to a certain extent. 

Players to watch:

Machester United

Ronaldo, Sancho, De Gea

Chelsea:

Mount, Ziyech, Pulisic

Predicitions: (Drop in your predictions as well)

United 1 - 3 Chelsea

Siddarth Kharga