By Shailesh Khanduri

New Delhi: Reacting on the CBI raids in the excise policy case, BJP MP Parvesh Sahib Singh Verma has claimed that the investigation agency had already collected incriminating evidences before the raid and now Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia should prepare to go to jail. 

Verma claimed that the policy to get a kick back of 6% in the commission of L1 is Kejriwal’s brainchild. “Becuase Sisodia is the finance minister, he will have to go to the jail. If he becomes approver to save himself, Kejriwal will have to go to the jail,” Verma told Aaj Tak.

Delhi BJP MP claimed that most of the liquor mafias have turned hostile and become government approver. 

“Those mafias have already told CBI how they had booked a suite in Oberoi hotel where Sisodia used to visit quite often and how a South Delhi restaurant owner close to Sisodia used to collect kickbacks. There was a warehouse in Okhla where the cash was stashed and then sent to Goa and Punjab,” Verma said. 

“CBI already has these evidences and they are in the process of picking the corrupts,” he said. 

Earlier today, CBI carried out searches at over 10 locations in Delhi-NCR including the residence of Sisodia in Delhi.

The raids on Sisodia’s house is in connection with the faulty excise policy of the Delhi government introduced last year. 

Although the excise policy was rolled back after Delhi  Lieutenant Governor VK Saxena recommended a CBI probe in the irregularities, CBI raided on 10 locations after registering an FIR.

The FIR alleges irregularities in formulation and execution of Delhi Excise Policy brought in November last year, according to officials.

LG had recommended a CBI probe into the Kejriwal government's Excise Policy, 2021-22, over alleged violations of rules and procedural lapses.

“The CBI inquiry was recommended on Delhi Chief Secretary's report filed in July, showing prima facie violations of GNCTD Act 1991, Transaction of Business Rules (ToBR)-1993, Delhi Excise Act-2009, and Delhi Excise Rules-2010,” said CBI officials.

Read more
https://www.newsdrum.in/national/excise-policy-case-cbi-has-incriminating-evidences-it-is-just-arresting-sisodia-and-others-parvesh-verma-77764.html