Neither Werder Bremen nor Mönchengladbach currently have positive consistency. Both teams want much-needed consistency in their Bundesliga match at Weser's stadium on Saturday.
They were forced to wait for a stubborn SC Freiburg on the 19th, but Dieter Hecking's side eventually triumphed to register a bold 3-0 victory on the new coach's home debut. last weekend. Having won an impressive win over Bayer 04 Leverkusen on their most recent away trip, the Foals will now hope to build on their current feel-good factor.
Borussia face a Bremen side reeling from three consecutive losses in 2017, although Alexander Nouri's side may feel sad that they failed to score at least a point. They put Borussia Dortmund and FC Bayern München to the test at the Weser Stadium and were perhaps unlucky to lose 3-2 to FC Augsburg last Sunday. However, they are still separated from the bottom three teams in terms of goal difference and need to quickly end this losing streak.
Werder Bremen vs Monchengladbach: Probable Playing XI
Werder Bremen: Jiri Pavlenka; Niklas Stark, Milos Veljkovic, Marco Friedl; Mitchell Weiser, Niklas Schmidt, Ilia Gruev, Jens Stage, Anthony Jung; Niclas Fullkrug, Marvin Ducksch
 
Monchengladbach: Yann Sommer; Joe Scally, Marvin Friedrich, Nico Elvedi, Ramy Bensebaini; Kouadio Kone, Julian Weigl, Christoph Kramer; Jonas Hofmann, Marcus Thuram, Lars Stindl
Werder Bremen vs Monchengladbach: Prediction
After returning to Germany's top league, Bremen have yet to record a win in front of their home crowd. In fact, they are currently on a two-game losing streak. Mönchengladbach, on the other hand, are undefeated in his 11 games and are on a  winning streak. Given these observations and head-to-head record, expect a win for Mönchengladbach at the Weserstadion on Saturday.
Prediction: Werder Bremen 2- 1 Monchengladbach
Werder Bremen vs Monchengladbach: Live Stream
In the UK, Sky Sports holds exclusive rights to broadcast Bundesliga matches. Bundesliga matches may be viewed live and on demand by subscribers using the Sky Go mobile app or the online player.