Sony Sports welcomes the broadcast of season four of the Tennis Premier League  

Pune: After the tremendous success of the first three seasons of the Tennis Premier League (TPL), India’s Premier tennis tournament is set for its fourth season to take place from 7th December 2022 to 11th December 2022. The fourth season of the Tennis Premier League is set to cater to an even wider audience this time with Sony Sports Network as the broadcaster for the league.    

The ever-growing fanbase of tennis in India will have an opportunity to witness international tennis stars live in action on SONY TEN 2 channels and the OTT platform SonyLIV.  

Sony Sports Network will play a pivotal role in bringing dynamic tennis action from the Balewadi Stadium in Pune to every corner of the Indian subcontinent. The Tennis Premier League is fast becoming the tennis equivalent of the Indian Premier League in the country. It will offer premium tennis action packaged in a highly enthralling format to capture the imagination of tennis fans in India. 

The upcoming Tennis Premier League season is set for its most exciting edition yet as, 2022 Wimbledon Men’s Doubles Champion, Matthew Ebden has been signed up as the marquee player for the Tennis Premier League’s fourth season. The likes of Malek Jaziri, who represented Tunisia at the Olympics; Anastasia Gasanova who has won 6 Singles titles and 3 Doubles titles on the ITF Women's circuit; Ramkumar Ramanathan, who is currently India rank number 1 in Men’s Singles and India rank number 2 in Men’s Doubles and Ankita Raina, who is currently India rank number 1 in Women’s Singles are some of the elite tennis players that will be participating in the fourth season of the Tennis Premier League as well.  

Rajesh Kaul, Chief Revenue Officer, Distribution and Head – Sports Business, Sony Pictures Networks India: “Sony Sports Network has always looked to bring the best sporting properties to viewers throughout the Indian subcontinent. We are pleased to partner with The Tennis Premier League which is set to become the T20 equivalent of tennis in India with its shorter and innovative 20-point format.