The Brannocks family was so happy to move into 657 Boulevard, Westfield, New Jersey, a suburban house they instantly fell in love with. It took their entire savings including retirement funds to own it. As they say, some beauties consume you fully. Dean Brannock (Bobby Cannavale) always wanted his kids to have their own rooms and please his wife Nora (Naomi Watts) with a better life. He never liked the insecurities of city life and believed in his professional abilities to repay that jumbo loan. Okay, now the stage is set for a Murphyish watch.In real life, Brannoks are Derek and Maria Broaddus, a couple who bought their dream home in Westfield and were horrified by the sinister letters came to their mailbox from ‘The Watcher’ which eventually forced them to move out of the place. It is a filed case and the watcher is yet to be caught.Ryan Murphy, Netflix’s top content creator who left Fox following a lucrative offer from the streaming giant couldn’t furnish ‘The Watcher’ as lasting material. Home fetishization is normal but when it turns into an addiction, it’s a trap. Most of the characters you meet in this seven-episode Netflix true-story series are victims of it. How Murphy stretched it to create a chain of unreal stories kills an interesting plot.Dean and Nora have it in their own ways. Karen (Jennifer Coolidge), Nora’s friend and a realtor is ambitious about her rich life in a huge house. Kaplan, a school teacher who loves the facades of old houses since childhood spreads his love for architecture through his students. His assignment – an ode to a house is still popular. Tale of 657 Boulevard continues with its strange, staring neighbours who own it and never let the real owners do so. Detective Theodora’s connection is a little different.As a watcher of ‘The Watcher,’ I failed to believe the story after story the Brannocks hysterically ran after. It would have been better if Murphy had blended real incidents with artistic imagination and made condensed episodes filled with suspense and thrill.