Justice Thomas' opinion in the overturning of Roe v. Wade, in which he suggested that cases involving substantive due process, such as Obergefell v. Hodges, which establish same-sex marriage as a fundamental right, should be reconsidered, sparked a firestorm of controversy. In the end, he resigned from his teaching post at the George Washington University School of Law and more calls for his resignation and impeachment have been made.
 
In these discussions, federal legislators discussed whether they should adopt federal laws protecting rights such as the right to abortion, same-sex marriage, and birth control. It also prompted federal legislators opposed to these rights to debate whether they should be prohibited. federally.
 
Incredibly, despite the fact that Democrats dislike Thomas and Republicans revere him, none of those who have carefully contemplated these measures comprehend the intent of his opinion. The citizens of these states have the right to choose for themselves whatever laws should rule them. Democrats and Republicans that advocate for either preserving or prohibiting abortion nationally disregard everything that he stated in his opinion.  They are striving to usurp state authority and make their own judgments on what the states should do.
 
If the majority of a state's residents want abortion to be legal, it should be legal. If the majority of people in a state want abortion to be prohibited, it should be prohibited. If the majority of the a state's people want to send its senators and representatives to Washington, D.C. to decide on abortion rights for other states, states with different cultures and values, they should not be permitted to do so. 

A politician inserting language into a bill that has an effect that is inconsistent with the remainder of the bill is one of the most deceitful and unethical political tactics that exist.  This is a common political strategy used to get what a party wants and it is entirely based on the politicians intent to fool the American people.