New Zealand has announced on reopening their borders in a phased manner soon. The country is planning on to ease up with the restrictions which were considered as some of the world's toughest Covid restrictions. 

News Zealanders who are vaccinated in Austrailia could return home from 27th February, and those who are jabbed and were in other parts of the world had an access to the country from 13th March, says PM Jacinda Ardern. 

They will have to self-isolate for 10 days but mandatory stays at state quarantine facilities will be scrapped. 

The plan includes five stages. 

New Zealand's borders have largely been closed for almost two years because of the pandemic. 

"Opening back up in this managed way balances inflows of travellers so people can reunite and fill our workforce shortages, while also ensuring our healthcare system can manage an increase in cases," Ms Ardern said in a speech in Auckland on Thursday morning. 

"After all, our strategy with Omicron is to slow the spread [of the Covid variant], and our borders are part of that." 

The prime minister said there was "life before" the virus but "there will be life after Covid too". 

"We are well on our way to reaching that destination. But we are not quite there yet," she stressed. 

The key elements of the plan are as follows: 

• Step 1: Fully vaccinated New Zealanders from Australia can return home from 27 February 

• Step 2: Fully jabbed citizens from all other countries are able to arrive from 13 March. This also applies to a number of critical and skilled foreign workers 

• Step 3: Up to 5,000 international students are allowed into the country from 12 April 

• Step 4: Australians and all other visitors who can normally travel visa-free to NZ are expected to be able to travel to the country no later than July 

• Step 5: Begins in October and includes all other visitors and students who normally require a visa 

New Zealand has recorded nearly 17,000 Covid cases and 53 deaths since the start of the outbreak.

Read more - https://www.google.com/amp/s/www.bbc.com/news/world-asia-60238867.amp