He is just 24 years old but one would not be wrong in saying that Marcus Rashford rolled back the years with his performance against Arsenal on Sunday evening. The Mancunian scored twice and assisted once in a rejuvenated performance that showed signs of him returning to his best form.
Rashford has shown time and again that he is a man for the big occasion. Amongst active players in the Premier League, only Vardy and Kane have scored more goals against the big six than him across all competitions. But Arsenal in particular cater heavily to Rashford’s strengths.
The Gunners were the visitors when an 18-year old Rashford made his debut in the Premier League and they suffered, conceding twice to him that day. These are the only four goals he has scored against them but there is a case to be made that Arsenal are Rashford’s bunny.
In the interloping period, Rashford provided four assists in matches between the two English giants. Only against Newcastle United (9) does he have more direct goal contributions than versus Arsenal. 
Since the start of the Arsene Wenger era, the North London side has preferred a possession heavy approach. The likes of Emery and Mikel Arteta have carried on that style but dominating the ball means that you will be susceptible at the back. Modern football necessitates playing a high line for a big team and that leaves space in behind the defence which Rashford is an expert in exploiting.
The Englishman is at his best running at and in behind, whether playing centrally or off the left. Arsenal have been terrible at dealing with pacy forwards in recent years and despite much improvement in the overall defensive structure, this problem seems to remain. Rashford also has a good record scoring 1v1s even if his overall finishing leaves some aspects to be desired.
With Bruno and Eriksen to feed him, Rashford thrived. His true return to form would be better judged by his performances against low-block defences. However, there is no denying that he loves a big match and Arsenal hand him chances on a platter without fail.