CNN's recent, non-Opinion section story on the man who valiantly rescued many from a mass shooter in Indiana by killing him exemplifies how opinion has infected objective journalism.

The article ignores every fact that would favor armed bystanders - instead twisting the facts and using sly and illogical arguments to "objectively" convince readers that carrying a firearm in public is dangerous and more often futile.

First, they claim that in just 22 of the 431 active shooter events from 2000 to 2021, an armed bystander shot the assailant, 10 of which included armed security personnel.

In an effort to demonstrate that the hazards of mass carry outweigh the advantages by portraying armed bystanders as largely ineffective and unnecessary in these situations, the authors ignore the reality that armed shooters seek out easy targets in areas where people aren't often armed. Consequently, if there were no armed bystanders, it would be completely unjust to include these mass shootings in this statistic, since it would be impossible for a bystander to shoot the victim.

In reality, according to data, 85% of mass shootings between 1988 and 2019 happened in gun-free zones (https://www.usconcealedcarry.com/resources/gun-facts-and-fiction/mass-shootings). Thus, when a good guy with a gun is present, he saves the day around 33% of the time, assuming a constant percentage from the 431 instances of active shooter scenarios described above.

CNN then asserts that a New York Times study revealed that trying to shoot a mass shooter produces "confusion" and carries "dire dangers." The New York Times study does not do that in any way. In reality, the NYT story asserts that the presence of one or more armed individuals "can" lead to confusion and dire consequences, and then lists just one instance in which confusion and dire consequences actually occurred.

The NYT report claimed merely that confusion and dire consequences are possible (it "can" occur), not that confusion and dire consequences often or always occur. Obviously it "can," in such an active scenario, confusion is almost a given, and the same might be said of an unarmed bystander pinning down a gunman.