We get asked about product layering all the time, so let’s settle it once and for all. The order in which you apply skincare products is directly related to how your skin is going to absorb them. To truly get the full benefits of your products, there is a rule of thumb: apply your skincare from thinnest to thickest. That means liquid-y products, like toners and serums, come first and oil-based, creamy, whipped products are applied last.STEP 1: CLEANSERWhether you’re looking for a clean slate to start your day or to remove your makeup at the end of it, wash up with your favorite cleanser. STEP 2: TONER OR ESSENCEUse a toner, like Baby Cheeks, to restore the skin’s pH, remove hard water residue, and replenish skin. The water-like consistency of toner penetrates quickly and preps your skin for the rest of your regimen. STEP 3: SERUMSerums are packed with active ingredients that target specific concerns. For best penetration, apply while skin is still slightly damp from the toner. STEP 4: EYE CAREOnce serums have absorbed, focus on the eye area with your favorite eye gel, balm, or cream. STEP 5: MOISTURIZER AND/OR FACIAL OILSeal your routine in with a moisturizer. Moisturizers are usually thicker in consistency because they are designed to absorb slower than your other products—this helps to lock in the moisture and protect your skin. STEP 6: SPOT TREATMENT When it comes to spot treatments you have two options. Moisturize first, avoiding the area of concern, then spot treat. STEP 7: SUNSCREENAnd finally, let’s not forget to protect our skin from the sun . Applying sunscreen should be the last and final step in your AM skincare routine. WEEKLY: EXFOLIATERegular exfoliation is important for unclogging pores (and reducing their appearance), preventing breakouts, brightening tone, and evening out texture. But too much exfoliation can worsen existing concerns. OPTIONAL: MASKS AND PEELS These targeted treatments can work their way into your rotation typically 1-3 times a week. 