Stephen Crichton put himself in the State of Origin conversation by underpinning the Panthers' seventh straight win of the season with a hat-trick in the 36-6 victory over Canberra in Penrith.

Earlier on Sunday, Parramatta enjoyed a 39-2 thrashing of the Knights in Newcastle.

After Crichton was awarded his third — a penalty try after interference from Raiders centre Matt Timoko — the 20,000-plus Penrith fans began a mock Viking clap to add a little more salt into the wounds of Raiders supporters.

They did it again 10 minutes from full-time when the result was inevitable.

Penrith remains blemish-free for the year, having won seven on the trot to be the only unbeaten team in the NRL.

Crichton's performance was played out in front of NSW Blues coach Brad Fittler, who was a sideline commentator for Channel Nine.

Fittler is likely to have a vacancy in his centre ranks for the opening State of Origin match in Sydney on June 8, with both incumbents Latrell Mitchell (hamstring) and Tom Trbojevic (knee) still several weeks from returning.

The Blues squad will be named after round 12.

Crichton did his chances no harm after Cronulla centre Siosifa Talakai pushed his name into the ring with a swashbuckling two tries, three try assists and three line-breaks in Thursday's win over Manly.

For Canberra, there is more disappointment.

The Raiders hung in relentlessly for a large chunk of the match but caved in during the final 18 minutes.

Penrith is renowned for suffocating sides, with the 14-6 half-time scoreline ballooning out to a 30-point win.

Something had to give after the opening 13 minutes with the Raiders camped on their line and Crichton finally crossed for the Panthers in the right corner.

But anyone who thought the Raiders would be fatigued from all that defending had to think again. Prop Joe Tapine ran hard onto the ball and over the Panthers line four minutes later to help level things up 6-6.

Perhaps some tiredness did finally arrive close to half-time when Isaah Yeo skipped through a yawning gap for a try, with Nathan Cleary kicking the conversion and then a penalty for a 14-6 lead at the break.