January 23rd / Utpal Parrikar (Late Manohar Parrikar’s son) - "I am not happy that I had to take this decision, but sometimes you have to take tough decisions. But I am ready to withdraw the decision if the party fields a good candidate from Panaji”.

January 24th / Sadanand Shet Tanavade (BJP Goa President) - “If we have learnt anything in the party about ethics and compromises, it is from Manohar Parrikar. If you recollect, when Manohar Parrikar became the CM in 2002, Monserrate was part of his cabinet. Later, in 2017, when again the government under Parrikar was formed, Monserrate was made the PDA chairman.”

It took one blunt rebuttal - BJP’s defence of Late Parrikar’s legacy of questionable ‘ethics or compromises the party did what was taught to them by Parrikar’ that gave a reality check to young Utpal that the man – Babush Monserrate that he seeks to replace was brought into the Party’s umbrella by his father.

But there is more to capital Panaji’s seat that was led by Jack Sequeira (the Father of Goa’s much-cherished Opinion Poll) and even Parrikar for over 23 years. The electorate voted for Atanasio ‘Babush’ Monserrate in the by-polls of 2019 after Parrikar’s death. Ironically, there was no sympathy for its longest-serving MLA as there was a massive 20.65% swing of votes in Congress’ Babush’s favour. Interestingly, BJP with or without Parrikar has been unable to cross more than 12% of vote swing in its favour and despite winning has been losing base in Panaji registering negative swings before 2019.

The heart of the matter is 5000+ Congress voters that have stood rock solid with the party despite Senior Parrikar being the MLA. The only man in BJP who could harness those votes was Babush, BJP’s current chosen one. But then he was a Congress candidate. Babush went to BJP as a migrant MLA, not an elected one. A gamble that the BJP wants to take.

The only hitch. Young Utpal who is rallying disgruntled former Parrikar loyalists sidelined BJP workers to usurp Babush's position in Panaji. For BJP it's like the nursery rhyme ‘Ring-a-Ring-Roses, All fall down'.