The FIFA World Cup is almost on the sports events calendar of the year. In 2022, the tournament will take place in Qatar from 20th November to 18th December. All the traditional national teams are joining, such as England, Argentina, Brazil and Uruguay, except Italy. The popular Azzurra lost to North Macedonia in the qualifiers and is out of the World Cup 2022. 
Thirty-two teams, 64 matches, 28 days, the first World Cup in the Middle East. The excitement for the World Cup is increasing and the anticipation is if Brazil will get the trophy for the sixth time. Two very famous betting sites Betway and Bet365 have come up with winning odds in favour of Brazil. The next in competition will be England, France and Argentina. As the competition is coming close, the betting sites are attracting punters with all sorts of betting tips, winning odds and rewarding deposit bonus options in the Indian market. India is one of the countries where the betting industry flares up seasonally and though the country loves cricket the excitement for football is no less. 
Let us see why the excitement is building up and which are the top teams and players that will gain everyone’s attention during this World Cup.
Top Contender for the World Cup Qatar 2022
Brazil
The Samba Boys are back on the international stage with a strong squad of world-class stars. The current Brazil team is well-placed to end their 20-year wait for the World Cup. Brazil is undoubtedly the best team in the world. The latest FIFA ranking shows they are top of the globe with 1837.56 points. They are also unbeaten in their World Cup qualifiers. Brazil will have to first find their way past Serbia, Switzerland and Cameroon, in Group G, before bigger tests likely await in the knockout stages.
Coach: Adenor Leonardo Bacchi 
FIFA ranking: 1 
Key players: Neymar, Casemiro, Marquinos, Vinicius Jr. 
Top Brazilian Players in World Cup Qatar 2022
Thiago Silva and Marquinhos have a fair chance of starting through the middle, but Eder Militao, Bremer and Gabriel Magalhaes are all regular starters at some of Europe’s biggest clubs, too.
https://khelnow.com/football/fifa-world-cup-2022-brazil-early-favourite