The Research Brief is a short take about interesting academic work.

The big idea

One year into the COVID-19 pandemic, we found that more than 1 in 5 U.S. adults reported probable depression in both spring 2020 and spring 2021. We also found that financial assets helped reduce the persistence of symptoms – but only to a point. Our recently published research highlights COVID-19’s continuing mental health effects on the U.S. population.

We launched a national study in March 2020 measuring mental health and assets. COVID-19 was a national emergency, as deaths were on the rise. Schools, workplaces and government offices closed as Americans were urged to stay home. At that time, we found that 27.8% of U.S. adults in our study reported symptoms of depression, such as losing interest in activities or feeling down or hopeless. This number was over three times as high as the national pre-pandemic depression estimate of 8.5%.

Most striking to us was that a year into the pandemic, depression rates remained high, despite hopeful signs of reducing infections and deaths. In April 2021, people were lining up for COVID-19 vaccine shots, doctors were finding better COVID-19 treatments and efforts to reopen society were under way. But by that point, the share of adults in our survey reporting symptoms of depression had gone up to 32.8%.

Worse yet, that higher 2021 number included 20.3% who had reported symptoms of depression both in April 2020 and in April 2021. This finding suggests that poor mental health driven by the pandemic was both prevalent and persistent.

We also wanted to know which assets – financial, physical and social – might be influencing people’s mental health during the pandemic. In our first survey, we found that people who came into the pandemic with relatively few assets – especially financial ones – were more likely to be affected by COVID-19-related stresses.

Read full story at The Conversation: https://theconversation.com/even-after-lockdowns-eased-pandemic-depression-persisted-across-social-classes-new-study-178518

Image courtesy: https://www.gettyimages.com/detail/photo/pandemic-covid-19-lockdown-pensive-woman-home-at-royalty-free-image/1226431883