"Compared to 64% of American Millennial respondents, 59% of Canadian Millennial respondents read religious or spiritual digital content at least once in the year before to the poll. In contrast to young adults in the United States, who posted on social media about religion or spirituality 47% of the time, Canadian young adults posted about it 33% of the time.

"These lower rates of digital religious practises among Canadian Millennials thus continue the trend present in the country since the 1970s of lower levels of overall religiosity indicators when compared with the United States, such as lower levels of frequent religious service attendance in Canada, lower levels of prayer, and lower levels of belief in God or a higher power."

According to Wilkins-Laflamme, those who consume religious or spiritual information at least once a month were more likely to report that it had a greater impact on their life. "As rates of more traditional religious practises, such as attendance at live religious services, have declined in more recent years among younger generations, the growth of the internet in our lives has meant that a larger proportion of Millennials are coming into somewhat regular contact with religion and spirituality online," the study concluded.

The project also found a link between individuals who engage in digital faith activities at least once a month and those who are more inclined to attend live religious services and other events.

"This more active kind of digital religion also has a bigger impact on adult religious service attendance and unchurched spiritual activities," she added. "Millennials appear to write about religion on social media far more frequently when they practise and experience it personally."

"For a smaller percentage of Millennials, practising digital religion and other non-religious forms of spirituality is a substitute for more traditional, in-person forms of religiosity. We wouldn't refer to these Millennial phenomena as a "spiritual revolution" because they are quite uncommon. They are significant phenomena, though. There are adherents of digital religion, and it is one of the options open to young adults today, competing in a way with many other, more secular ones for their time and attention.