Granit Xhaka - An under appreciated presence

When you think of the star players for Arteta, you think of the likes of Saka, Odegaard, and recently Jesus, Saliba & Zinchenko. Rightly so, but one of the most key cogs? Granit Xhaka.

The Swiss midfielder often has a very unfair reputation, which gets used to downplay his footballing qualities. Since Arteta’s arrival, Xhaka has been one of the most consistent players at the club.

Often in a pivot, however Granit has taken up a new role which has become especially evident this season and in the 2nd half of last season - the 8 role in Mikel’s highly anticipated 433. 

Xhaka has provided the balance of a strong, duel monster who’s very complete aerially & very good at sensing danger, but also being a surprise goal threat, with 3 goal contributions in his opening 3 games for Arsenal.

Aside from just the numbers backing it up, the 29 year old’s positioning is very telling - anticipating loose balls, making 3rd man box runs & ultimately adding an extra man to deal with for opponents, almost filling a Gundogan type role. 

Despite his evident lack of mobility, Xhaka’s intelligence partnered with Arteta’s flexibility of his squad has showcased Xhaka’s versatility too.

As well as being a surprise 8 & dropping deeper, often into a 3 back earlier into Arteta’s tenure, Granit has also filled the makeshift role of Left back, allowing new signing Zinchenko to thrive into midfield zones, while Xhaka occupies the left side in his absence.

As the Arsenal squad develops, Xhaka does too. 

Fans have become more welcomed to his qualities, even creating a chant for him, which says a lot about how much the Swiss has improved on and off the pitch under Mikel Arteta after the previous incident which has been mentioned several times, at the Emirates. 

A versatile, hardworking, positionally excellent, leader with an immense passing range, a great shot, a big midfield presence and a great perception of the game. Granit Xhaka, integral to Arsenal.