Pakistan’s Prime Minister Imran Khan is facing the most formidable political test ever since he took as the head of the government more than three years ago. On Monday, a no-confidence motion to remove him was tabled in the country’s parliament.

The lower house of the National Assembly will discuss the bill before it is taken up for voting in the next few days. Former cricketing superstar has been a whirlwind tour attending rallies that have been held in support of his government ever since the opposition parties led by former prime minister Nawaz Sharif-led Pakistan Muslim League (N) first spoke of tabling a no-confidence motion. ( https://www.dawn.com/news/1682250/na-session-adjourned-till-march-31-after-tabling-of-no-confidence-resolution-against-pm-imran )

Khan’s Pakistan Tehreek-i-Insaaf (Pakistan Justice Party) has been kept on the tenterhooks by several of its allies as they can tilt the scales when the voting is held, which could be as early as later this week. ( https://www.aljazeera.com/news/2022/3/20/pakistan-pm-khan-faces-no-confidence-motion-next-week )

Khan has been staring at a defeat in the parliament, with at least a dozen of his own party’s assembly members deciding to side with the opposition. But on Monday, Khan seemed to have pulled off an upset of sorts after he made concessions to an ally by offering chief ministership of the powerful Punjab Province. This has made the political situation even more enjoyable. ( https://tribune.com.pk/story/2350038/govt-pml-q-seal-the-deal-as-buzdar-quits-punjab-cm-slot-for-pervaiz-elahi )

The opposition parties have been scrambling to make up the numbers, but with PML(Q) deciding to stay with the government, the Khan government has got a shot in the arm. But it still has a huge task of defeating the no-confidence motion in the National Assembly and garner numbers in the province of Panjab where the dissidence within the PTI is massive. ( https://www.arabnews.com/node/2049381/world )

In the meanwhile, the opposition parties are confident that they can get the support of 172 members in the house of 342 to dislodge the government. The next few days could see a flurry of activities, and Khan is unlikely to give up so easily. After today’s developments, Khan has shown that he is capable of pulling off surprises even without the support of the country’s powerful military.