Not looking after your mental wellbeing creates confusion and an inability to gauge ones' own level of fitness. People in panic and fear also end up taking the wrong medicines to get better faster. Extreme anxiety has also been linked to immunity responses. We are all learning the hard way that Covid doesn't just go away, you must rest and allow your body to heal.

Anxiety during the recovery phase is crucial to manage for all patients. One is coming out of a phase of uncertainty and social isolation, even if it was done at home, and there are worries one goes through when they are down with Covid.

One step that has shown great benefit is structuring one's daily activities. This way, one can create a balance between activities and rest as much as possible. Instead of rushing back to normalcy, one should pace themselves during their recovery phase. Relaxation is very important as the body takes time to fully recover from the disease. Even if all your symptoms are gone, gradually ease yourself back to your daily routine.

One usually comes out of an overwhelming sense of negativity and worries after the period of isolation. It is a good time to shift your focus to introspection and gratitude. Take the time to thank the people who looked after you, reflect on the positivity around you. This helps reduce anxiety and makes you feel better about yourself and the future.

If you feel you have deep scars from your time of isolation and you are unable to reduce anxiety, then do not hesitate to ask for help. It is always available. Most hospitals have a dedicated helpline for mental health. But even if you don't want to take it to a hospital, general physicians, family or friends are also available. If you can't pick up the phone and dial for assistance, you won't get access to the support or information you need. So, it is important to take that step for your own wellbeing.

Read more- https://www.msn.com/en-in/health/wellness/how-to-manage-your-mental-health-post-covid/ar-AATEjZM