The Sino-Indian Boundary Issue continues...
Maj. Relingnao ‘Bob’ Khating, 1912-1999, born in Ukhrul, Manipur, into the 
Tangkhul Naga community, was a batch-mate of Gen. T.N. Raina’s, later to become Army Chief, and Lt. Gen. J.F.R. Jacob’s at the O.T.S., Mhow. He ws 
commissioned into the 14th Hyderabad Regiment (which was later renamed the 
Kumaon Regiment) and posted to the 7th Battalion then at the regiment’s 
Training Centre in Agra, where he served as a Company Officer under the 
Company Commander, Major K.S. Thimayya, who was later to become Army 
Chief. 
While serving in the ‘V’ force in Burma behind the Japanese lines in WW2 
he was awarded the Military Cross for gallantry, the Army Chief’s Gallantry 
Certificate, and twice Mentioned in Despatches, and was later made a Member of the British Empire (MBE). After the War, Capt. Bob Khating, MC, MBE, was 
transferred to the Assam Regiment and joined its 3rd Battalion in Shillong as a 
Company Commander. After India became independent on 15 August 1947, on 
repeated requests from the Maharajah of Manipur, the Political Agent and the 
Ukhrul elders, to return to Manipur to serve the State, he finally resigned from the 
Army and in October 1947, joined the Government of Manipur State, as 
Minister-in-charge of the Hills Administration. 
After winning the subsequent elections, he continued as Minister-in-Charge of Hills Administration and also raised the Manipur Rifles, the State Armed Police Force. When the Raja of Manipur acceded to India in October 1949, and Manipur became part of the 
Indian Union, he was requested to temporarily join the Assam Rifles till he could be absorbed into the newly-forming Indian Frontier Administration Service, 
(IFAS) under the Ministry of External Affairs. As an IFAS officer he was awarded 
the Padmashree in 1957 for his outstanding work in establishing Indian 
administration in various parts of Arunachal Pradesh and for his relief work after the devastating earthquake of 15 August 1950.
The Sino-Indian Boundary Issue Concluded!
Next up :- An Overview of the 1962 War ( Chapter 9 )