Indian melodic blackened symphonic death metal band Demonic Resurrection’s new EP ‘Decades of Darkness’ is kicking all sorts of ass. Though featuring only four songs, this is one of the most awesome death metal records to have come out in a while.
 
 From the sound of it, the Mumbai based metal band seems to be going back to their older symphonic death metal sound from ‘A Darkness Descends’ and ‘The Return To Darkness’, rather than the Indian classical inspired progressive death metal of ‘Dashavatar’. ‘Instrumentally, the EP is what you'd get by merging Nightwish and Obituary.
 
The riffs are sexy and headbangable, the keys really add a sinister tone to the music, the drums are bombastic, but above all, the lead guitar simply kills. Also there are plenty of hooks here, with a very careful interplay between the heavy, symphonic, and melodic sections, adding a good deal of versatility. Furthermore, the greater utilization of female vocals in ‘Eye of Eternity’ and ‘Non Serviam’ is a great bonus with the merging of female and male vocals and female vocals and growls being very captivating, while ‘The Mask’ and ‘Necromancer’ can be brutal and yet soothing.
 
If there is anything to pick apart here, it is that this EP is way too short. There are only four songs here, technically eight, because the other four are instrumental iterations of the four tracks, and seriously, if they had more such songs in the mix and they did not add them for whatever reasons, that is almost criminal.
 
At a time when the global metal scene is littered with various copycat unoriginal bands, trying to mimic the glory of past bands, ‘Decades of Darkness’ is a breath of fresh air. It has enough of the signature Demonic Resurrection sound while still keeping things original, thus preventing any kind of boredom. The true titans of metal, by putting out more such pieces, Demonic Resurrection is not only helping give a boost to the Indian metal scene, but also providing a beautiful alternative, at a time when the Western scene is becoming stale. 
 
 

Score: 9.5/10
 
 
 