Polychaetes are segmented worms that live in nearly all marine habitats, from the shallow seashore or estuaries to the deep sea. They are very abundant, often making up as much as 70% of the animals found in an area. Not only are there many of them, but they are very important in contributing to the biodiversity of the marine environment.

Many species of these worms – and there are at least 11,500 species worldwide – perform ecological functions similar to those of earthworms, their terrestrial relatives. They provide food for birds or fish, they recycle marine compost, and their burrowing keeps sand oxygenated.

Polychaetes also have a few unique functions. Some species create three-dimensional habitats for other animals when they build tubes that form reefs on rocks. Some are ferocious predators. Others bore into the shells of molluscs such as oysters and marine snails and the bones of dead whales. They turn the shells and bones into calcareous sand, or release calcium carbonate back into the environment where it can be incorporated into new shells.

Polychaetes can also have an economic impact when fishermen use them as bait or when they damage the shells of farmed oysters and abalone. And they can create ecological havoc when they invade new environments. This happens when they are accidentally moved around the world on the hulls of ships, in their ballast water, or as hitchhikers on oysters and other shellfish transported for farming.
The first step in exploring the many ecological roles of polychaetes, and conserving them where necessary, is to identify the species. In South Africa this is complicated by the fact that it’s not known which, and how many, species actually occur on the country’s coast.

According to the definitive book on southern African polychaetes, written by John Day in 1967, more than 700 species have been reported in the region. But in the course of more recent research it was found that several species thought to occur throughout the world had been misidentified locally. 

Read more - https://theconversation.com/worms-in-the-seas-of-southern-africa-were-on-a-journey-to-setting-the-record-straight-184356