Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal skipped the event organised by  Aam Aadmi Party and claimed that the Delhi administration had been "hijacked" on orders from the office of Prime Minister Narendra Modi. The police allegedly put up PM Modi's huge posters on stage and threatened to arrest anyone who took them down, according to AAP.

Kejriwal's party shared images of the event on Twitter, including photos of the stage being covered with images of PM Modi, Kejriwal, and Delhi L-G Vinai Kumar Saxena, as well as destroyed posters of the Delhi CM.

According to Delhi Environment Minister Gopal Rai, police raised PM Modi's banner in the Asola Wildlife Sanctuary as per an order from the Center.

The Delhi Police arrived at the event's location last night and seized control of the scene. They hung banners with PM Modi's image under force. At a press conference, Rai said that the AAP government's banners had been pulled off.

The development comes amid a new round of conflict between Kejriwal and the Delhi L-G. Saxena has previously recommended a CBI investigation into the Delhi government's new excise policy, claiming illegal practises and involvement of Manish Sisodia.

The LG office said that Sisodia gave "undue financial favours" to liquor licence holders long after the contracts had been chosen, causing the exchequer to suffer significant losses. Sisodia's conduct is being investigated for suspected willful and serious procedural errors that gave liquor licensees for the years 2021–2022 an unfair advantage during the tendering procedure,

Kejriwal recently claimed that the Center had purposefully prevented him from travelling to Singapore for an event at which he was scheduled to introduce the "Delhi Model" to other nations.

The Lieutenant Governor and Chief Minister were to work together to carry out the aforementioned tree planting campaign that corresponded with "Van Mahotsav". On July 4, 2022, a mutual decision had been made in this regard. The scheme, which involves planting a total of 1,000,000 trees, was set to be officially launched today by the Lieutenant Governor and Chief Minister.