1. Yoon Hye-jin from Hometown Cha-Cha-Cha (2021)
Hye-jin moves to the beautiful seaside village of Gongjin to open her own dental clinic after she’s fired from her job in Seoul. At the beginning of the show, Hye-jin is an uptight and superficial egotist, who looks down upon the villagers. As the show progresses, we see her open up and go out of her way to help her patients and the villagers.

2. Jung Tae-eul in The King: The Eternal Monarch (2020)
Jung Tae-eul took taekwondo lessons from her father and dreamt of solving crimes. Now an adult, she has a no-nonsense personality and is determined to catch the culprits of the cases she handles. When confronted with bizarre events such as time travel and parallel worlds, Tae-eul keeps her cool and stays grounded.

3. Hong Cha-young from Vincenzo (2021)
the character of Hong Cha‑young an eclectic prosecutor, comes as a pleasant surprise. When Cha-young finds out that the Babel Group was behind the murder of her father, she joins forces with Vincenzo to seek revenge. A successful lawyer, Cha-young is stylish and lovable, armed with a sharp tongue and a great sense of humour. However, when it comes to people she cares about, Cha-young is ruthless and will do anything to succeed.

4. Jung Seo-hyun and Seo Hee Soo from Mine (2021)
Jung Seo-hyun (Kim Seo-hyung), who is married to the first son of the same family. Hee Soo struggles with retaining her identity, while Seo-hyun is hiding a big secret about her sexuality. 

5. Jo Yi Seo from Itaewon Class (2020)
Jo Yi Seo , a social media star with sociopathic tendencies, joins Park Sae-ro-yi as he seeks revenge on the heir of one of South Korea's largest catering enterprises. Yi Seo doesn't believe in the set rules of right and wrong and will do anything, no matter how grim, as long as it serves her purpose. As the manager of Sae-ro-yi’s restaurant, Yoi Seo creatively resolves all the issues that crop up. At the end of the show, however, we see her transform from a stubborn social media star to a successful businesswoman.