The Sino-Indian Boundary Issuecontinues....
1. Later the Governor of Goa and then of Punjab, he was the architect of India’s 
military intervention in the-then East Pakistan in the winter of 1971. As Chief of 
Staff of the army’s Eastern Command, he had conceived and planned the military 
operation in May 1971. After having prepared the army logistically, he was also greatly responsible for directing and coordinating the progress of the operations, and was personally responsible for converting what was going to be a cease-fire 
negotiation in Dhaka [Dacca] into a formal public surrender by the Pakistani 
Eastern Army commander, Lt. Gen. A.A.K. Niazi. For this he is held in reverential 
regard by the people of Bangladesh.
2. These are, from north to south: In old Amdo, the Gannan Tibetan Autonomous 
Prefecture in Gansu Province, and the Ngapa Tibetan Autonomous Prefecture in 
Sichuan Province; in old Kham the Kanzi Tibetan Autonomous Prefecture also in 
Sichuan Province, and the Dechen Tibetan Autonomous Prefecture in Yunnan 
Province.
3. Founder-President of the India-China Friendship Association.
4. Maj. Relingnao ‘Bob’ Khating, 1912-1999, born in Ukhrul, Manipur, into the 
Tangkhul Naga community, was a batch-mate of Gen. T.N. Raina’s, later to become Army Chief, and Lt. Gen. J.F.R. Jacob’s at the O.T.S., Mhow. He ws 
commissioned into the 14th Hyderabad Regiment (which was later renamed the 
Kumaon Regiment) and posted to the 7th Battalion then at the regiment’s 
Training Centre in Agra, where he served as a Company Officer under the Company Commander, Major K.S. Thimayya, who was later to become Army Chief. While serving in the ‘V’ force in Burma behind the Japanese lines in WW2 he was awarded the Military Cross for gallantry, the Army Chief’s Gallantry 
Certificate, and twice Mentioned in Despatches, and was later made a Member of the British Empire (MBE). After the War, Capt. Bob Khating, MC, MBE, was 
transferred to the Assam Regiment and joined its 3rd Battalion in Shillong as a 
Company Commander. 
To be continued...