THE PRESIDENT:  Thank you, thank you, thank you.  Thank you.

Well, it’s good to see you all.  Denis, Mr. Secretary, thank you very much for that introduction, but more importantly, as a lot of the senators here know, for being my friend for a long time.  And thank you for joining the administration.

You know, when I was forming the administration, I knew Denis could do any job in the administration, and — but he wanted to be Secretary of Veterans Affairs because it mattered so much to him. 

And I think the most important thing to have someone in charge of that department was somebody who cares — cares about what he or she is going to do.  I knew he’d pull every lever to deliver results to military veterans and their families.  And that’s exactly what he’s done.

I also want to thank all of the veteran service organizations that are here today.  I’m going to ask you all to stand.  I’m not going to read your names out now, but the VA — all the organizations — the veterans’ organizations, please stand.  (Applause.)  Thank you.

Before we leave today and we finish, I want to thank each one of you personally, because you just keep it going for us.  You are the most valuable thing the veterans have.  I mean it sincerely.  So, thank you.  We owe you a great deal, and all the families owe you.

And the Democratic and Republican sponsors of the bill, especially the leaders of our veterans’ committee — Big Jon Tester — Jon, thank you very much, ole buddy.  And, Senator Moran, I thank you, as well as Takano and — and, you know, (inaudible) is also here.  Where — where are you?  Where is everybody?  There you go.  Okay.  You got four right across.  Okay. 

I — I need glasses.   I — only — when I look out, the only thing I see is Joe Manchin.  Hey, Joe.  How are you?  (Laughter.)  God, I wish I had Joe’s hair.  (Laughter.)  All kidding aside, all friends.

Complete statement :- https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/06/07/remarks-by-president-biden-at-signing-of-nine-bipartisan-bills-that-honor-and-improve-care-for-veterans/