Fatty acids are essential for proper functioning of the various systems in our body. From food sources people are able to get the required amount of fatty acids. 

Two different types of fatty acids are essential and nonessential. 

The body is able to formulate nonessential fatty acids by converting amino acids in the foods a person eats. 

But the body cannot create essential fatty acids. They can be only directly gained from food sources. Essential fatty acids include linoleic acid (LA), an omega-6 fatty acid, and alpha-linolenic acid (ALA), an omega-3 fatty acid. 

These fatty acids make hormones that regulate the immune system and central nervous system. 

What are essential fatty acids ? 

Essential fatty acids are a type of polyunsaturated fatty acid. There are two categories of essential fatty acids: omega-3 and omega-6. 

Omega-3 and omega-6 fatty acids are necessary for the body to function correctly. They make compounds called eicosanoids, which are important hormones that control the immune system, nervous system, and other hormones. 

However, the eicosanoids from omega - 3 and omega - 6 fatty acids act differently. 

Eicosanoids from omega-3 fatty acids promote heart health, while eicosanoids from omega-6 increase immune response, inflammation, and blood pressure.

Because the two omega fatty acids can produce opposite effects, and a person should try to balance them in their diet. 

Benefits 

A 2012 review highlighted on older studies suggesting omega-3 fatty acids may also help prevent bowel disease, asthma, and some mental health conditions. 

Likewise, it is important to note that most of the research on omega-3s has focused on fatty acids from animal sources, like fish and fish oil, rather than plant-based sources. Some of the benefits observed in studies may come from consuming fish, not the omega-3 fatty acids themselves.

Summary 

The essential fatty acids cannot be produced by the body alone. It plays a very crucial role in the functioning of the body which involves heart health, cancer prevention, cognitive function, skin health and obesity prevention. 

Good food nourishments of essential fatty acids involves the intake of vegetable oils, nuts and oily cold-water fish. Other supplements that contains essential fatty acids are flaxseed oil, fish oil, cod liver oil, and krill oil. 

Read more : 
https://www.medicalnewstoday.com/articles/essential-fatty-acids