Having the best defense gives the team a lot of confidence going forward because they can rely on it during counter-attacks, and it's our backbone that keeps the team safe. A strong defense means a more balanced squad.
And when it comes to Manchester City, they have developed many great defenders throughout their history, and they have enabled the club achieve greatness. When it comes to their best defenders, the list is extensive, and we have selected the top ten best defenders from 2001 to 2022. We have ranked them below.


10 Kyle Walker
Walker has been a long-serving Manchester City defender due to his extensive Premier League experience. Walker joined Manchester City for a fee of 50 million, and with such a high price tag, he had to indicate his abilities. The player did not shy away from demonstrating his capabilities, and the pacey right-back stamped his authority and took control of his position.
Walker was a different gravy, and his pace was too good, allowing him to break counter-attacks as a full-backs at the same time. He received widespread acclaim and established himself as a first-choice defender, and he is still going strong at City, having made 222 appearances and winning four Premier League titles.


9 Joleon Lescott
Lescott joined City from Everton in pursuit of trophies and more fame, but he struggled in his first season and failed to replicate his Everton form. He suffered numerous injuries and was replaced by Kolo Toure, and struggled to find a rhythm. When he finally found his groove, Lescott blossomed into one of the Premier League's best defenders, appearing in numerous matches.
Lescott was gifted with great defensive elements and became a well-known defender for the club. He appeared in 160 games and won the Premier League twice.

8 Jesús Navas
After establishing himself as one of Europe's top defenders, Navas received an offer from Manchester City, which he quickly accepted. He started a new life in England and was a starring defender in his four seasons at the club, appearing in 183 matches and providing 39 assists. He once won the Premier League.
