Celtic and Real Madrid will be squaring off against each other in their opening encounter of the UEFA Champions League 2022-23 season at the Celtic Park on September 07. Real Madrid are currently the defending champions of the UEFA Champions League and the record title holders of the coveted competition too. 
Real Madrid, RB Leipzig, and Celtic are the four teams that have been drawn against each other in Group F of this year’s UEFA Champions League. Celtic will be coming in this game with a poor record as they have lost 8 of their last 10 appearances against Spanish sides in the European competitions. 
Real Madrid will be taking on a Scottish club in UCL for the first time since 1983. Madrid will be oozing with confidence coming into this game, given the rich history behind the team in this competition and their recent form. 
Celtic vs Real Madrid Match Details
Match: Celtic vs Real Madrid
Date and Time: 07th September, 08:00 pm UK (06/09), 08:00 pm Local (06/09), 12:30 am IST
Venue: Stadion Maksimir
Celtic vs Real Madrid Probable Playing XI
Celtic: Joe Hart; Greg Taylor, Moritz Jenz, Cameron Carter-Vickers, Josip Juranovic; Callum McGregor, Matthew O'Riley, David Turnbull; Jota, Giorgos Giakoumakis, Liel Abada
Real Madrid: Thibaut Courtois; Ferland Mendy, David Alaba, Eder Militao, Dani Carvajal; Aurelien Tchouameni, Toni Kroos, Luka Modric; Rodrygo, Vinicius Junior, Karim Benzema
Celtic vs Real Madrid Probable Winners
Although Celtic haven’t had a great record against Spanish teams in the competition off late, their league form recently has been tremendous. Madrid, too, managed to maintain a perfect record in La Liga so far and hence, it could be a close tie considering Celtic have the home advantage. 
Prediction: Celtic 1-2 Real Madrid
Celtic vs Real Madrid Live Stream
Celtic vs Real Madrid will be live-streamed on SonyLIV. Indian fans can also stream the match live on Jio TV. In Scotland, The match will be televised on BT Sport. BT Sport subscribers will be able to watch the match online via the BT Sport website or app. In Spain, Telefonicawill broadcast the games.