Igor Stimac was a huge footballer of his time – his place in history was secured for ever after he helped his country, Croatia, win the third place in the 1998 World Cup. After his playing days were over, Stimac took to coaching but wasn’t as successful as he was as a central defender. Currently the national coach of India, the Asian Cup qualifiers to be played in Kolkata from June 8 to 14, is likely to be crucial for his continuance in the post. Pitted against weaker opponents (at least as per the FIFA rankings) like Afghanistan, Cambodia and Hong Kong, it would be a disaster if the hosts fail to make the 2023 Asian Cup. In that case, the Croatian can pack his bag immediately as his current contract till September is unlikely to be extended further.
Stimac was given a free hand to shape India’s national team in the way he wanted to. Somehow, he hasn’t produced the desired results. No one asked him to raise an unbeatable side – it’s hardly possible in the Indian football context, but under him, the team haven’t improved much. Recently, India played a friendly against Jordan in Doha. That they lost 0-2 against higher ranked Jordan wasn’t an issue. But the lacklustre attitude of the Indians on the pitch certainly pained the fans. His plan to go for a 5-3-2 formation instead of regular 4-4-2 also raised eyebrows. Stimac blamed injury to key players like Rahul Bheke, Udanta Singh and Liston Colaco as one of the reasons for below par show, but fans would find it difficult to accept it.
Is Stimac himself on the backfoot? His recent utterings give such a feeling. Few weeks ago, the Indian coach said he was confident that his team would qualify from this group. But after the Jordan match, he has changed his tone to an extent. Now he is talking about the experience of Afghanistan footballers, who play in the European lower divisions and the Brazilians players Hong Kong have in their line-up. The supporters of the Indian team are definitely worried over what their coach has to say.