Oatmeal has been a breakfast staple for centuries, but 2021 has brought about new ways to cook this classic cereal, including baked oats, blended oats, overnight oats, and more! There’s no shortage of creativity in the flavour department either with users making Carrot Cake Oats, Jelly Doughnut Oats, and all your favourite desserts!

These recipes are also great because you can make them the night before, so there’s no need to sacrifice your precious sleep. More sleep with a healthy AND yummy breakfast waiting for me in the morning? Count me in!

Without further ado, let’s dive in!

1. Berries & Cream Overnight Oats

Are you a little lad who likes berries & cream? If so, then Driscoll’s Blueberry and Raspberry Overnight Oats are perfect for you! This recipe requires no cooking, and it’s great for kids and adults alike! All you need to do is mix it all up and pop it into the fridge, and you’ll have the goodness of berries & cream ready in no time!

2. Chocolate Chip Baked Oats

Cake? Chocolate Chip Cookie? Oats? Why decide when you can have all 3! This delicious Chocolate Chip Baked Oats recipe will have you eating dessert for breakfast in just 30 minutes!

3. Pumpkin Spice Oatmeal Cookie

Who says oats have to be in a bowl? This Pumpkin Spice Giant Cookie is great for fall and tastes exactly like a pumpkin spice latte (especially if you’re a fan of oat milk)

4. Savoury Oat Cups

Oats don’t always have to be sweet, and She Likes Food shows us not 1 but 6 different ways to enjoy savoury oats! What’s more, they’re make-ahead, vegan, and gluten-free! Score!

5. Instant Coffee Overnight Oats

If you’re on team Can’t-Function-Without-Coffee, then this recipe will be your new best friend. With the addition of chia seeds, these Instant Coffee Overnight Oats will give you the energy boost you need to get through the day without the 2pm slump.

For more recipes like this, head on over to my blog! 
https://themadbatter404822167.wordpress.com/2022/05/05/breakfast-oats-redefined-number-oat-recipes-for-a-great-morning/