By BestMediaInfo Bureau 

Subscription-based global OTT giant Netflix, for the first time, will be rolling an ad-supported cheaper subscription plan worldwide in the next two years. This announcement took the global M&E industry by storm.

India, which has largely been a success story for the freemium OTT platforms, is set to provide impetus to Netflix’s AVOD plans.

BestMediaInfo.com spoke to the masters of the trade to decipher the impact of this move by Netflix on the Indian OTT landscape and what should it do to sustain itself in India once it introduces AVOD model. 

India’s AVOD market size stood at $1.1 billion in 2021 and will reach $2.4 billion in 2026. Over the same period, SVOD is expected to grow from its current size of $ 0.8 billion to $ 2.1 billion in 2026, according to Deloitte's TMT (Technology, Media, and Telecommunications) Predictions 2022 report.

Market reports state that Netflix currently has over 4.4 million subscribers in India. With it entering the ad business, it will definitely increase the competition in the OTT AVOD space as it already has strong footholds in India and is a well-funded company. 

A senior media observer stated that with Netflix introducing advertising, it will become a well-funded competitor in the M&E industry. “Netflix is a huge brand and can turn around things in the Indian OTT space. It will increase the competition among the OTT players for the share in the marketers’ advertising budgets once it opens the platform for ads. Not just this, marketers will also get an opportunity to advertise on a premium brand like Netflix.”

While advertising will add to the incremental revenue for Netflix India, it will also help the platform increase its subscribers base. 

A media expert said, “India has a segment of people who don’t want to pay much for subscriptions. People who were not able to watch Netflix earlier will now be able to sample it. Like this, it will help Netflix increase its audience base in India. Although, this won’t alter the revenue for Netflix India in the short term.”

Read the full story here:- https://bestmediainfo.com/2022/04/what-does-netflix-s-plan-to-launch-avod-model-mean-for-the-indian-ott-ecosystem/