By Shivaji Dasgupta

When India played its debut T20 international in 2006, Dinesh Karthik was in the game and he does look ahead to the game in 2022. When Sunil Chettri kicked off an international soccer career in 2005, nobody could possibly imagine such heroic continuity till the 2023 AFC Cup.

Both are actually fine poster boys for the anti-ageism brigade, fervently proving that 'Youngness' has nothing to do with youth. Simply put, 'Youngness' is a hybrid state of body and mind, where fitness combines effortlessly with ingenuity to make the biological clock null and void. Here experience becomes an uncanny point of difference, the induction of wisdom making unique acumen a piercing missile. The tipping point surely has been the new-found ' Yo Yo' culture, with even the finest skill rendered redundant in the absence of table-stake athleticism.

But then, my observations are more to do with the world at large and not just the limited ambit of sport. In professions and vocations, across global locations, we are obsessed with thrusting the lesser in age with the largest of responsibilities. Every HR person will confess, sotto voice at least, that the CEO mandate is veering relentlessly towards the early forties, and this pattern extends organically to entire leadership suites. Most notably, such thinking is pampered by the tech geek stories, freckled dropouts in boxer shorts conjuring obscene evaluations.

Although, upon application of simple, scalable logic, this argument does seem to capsize and the icebergs are many. Just like sportspeople, even corporate players are way fitter than ever before, courtesy the evolution of wellness, a penchant for fashion, and a greater appetite for life. Indians, for instance, enjoy an average tenure expectancy close to seventy, while galloping affluence and healthcare promise to escalate this further. The fifty-plus age cohort is the newfound darling of marketers and second innings careerists now forge a burgeoning community.

Read the full story here:- https://www.newsdrum.in/analysis/ageism-how-dinesh-karthik-and-sunil-chettri-are-busting-ageism-47602.html