Srinagar: Sunny Raina was four years old in 1990 when his family fled their home nestled in the scenic rural landscape of Kokernag in south Kashmir’s Anantnag district, travelling more than 200 kilometres to move into a hot and squalid tenement in Jammu’s barren and dusty outskirts.

 

The Raina’s were among the estimated 44,167 families, of whom 39,782 are Hindus and almost all Kashmiri Pandits, displaced by the insurgency mounted by secessionist militants who were calling for the Muslim-majority Kashmir Valley to be cleansed of them. Over 100 Pandits were killed at the time. With more than 150,000 people pouring into the refugee camps over the next few years, it was the largest internal displacement after independence. 


Raina spent the next 15 years in the Muthi camp, with his brother, their parents, and grandparents in a single room, whose ceiling he recalled was barely above their heads. Those days were behind them after the family built a house in another Jammu suburb but it still felt like a temporary address. 


In 1991, the Rainas heard from their lifelong Kashmiri Muslim neighbours that their home was burnt down, but they never found out whether the arsonists were militants or local goons.


“Our home is in Kashmir,” said Raina, 35, explaining why even though he had few childhood memories of the place, he returned to the conflict-ridden valley in 2011 to work as a mechanical engineer in the Jammu and Kashmir (J&K) engineering department.
When then prime minister Manmohan Singh announced an Rs- 1,600 crore rehabilitation package for Kashmiri migrants in 2008, it gave hope to many including the Rainas. 


The core elements of the package issued by the  Congress Party-led United  Progressive Alliance government commonly referred to as the PM package, were the creation of 6,000 government jobs, temporary housing in transit accommodations, financial incentives for self-employment in Kashmir and assistance in rebuilding homes. 


Read more - https://article-14.com/post/dead-end-jobs-one-room-quarters-why-islamophobia-won-t-get-the-kashmiri-pandits-home--626f3e1ed0849