Civil Rights icon Rosa Parks, Vice President Kamala Harris and Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. are among the most popular Black historic leaders with lawmakers on social media during Black History Month, according to a survey by the Pew Research Center.

The non-profit organization conducted the study over a two-year period and composed a Top 10 list of Black pioneers who lawmakers mentioned on posts on social media platforms, including Facebook, Instagram and Twitter.

According to the study, during Black History Month in 2020 and 2021, Civil Rights icon Rosa Parks was the single most-mentioned individual in lawmaker posts about Black History Month. The survey said 40 Democratic and Republican lawmakers mentioned Parks in this context in 2020, and 41 did so in 2021.

Vice President Kamala Harris drew 36 social media posts from Democratic lawmakers in 2021 but none from Republicans. In 2020, Harris did not make the list, but Civil Rights leader Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. drew 33 social media posts that year from Democrats and just four posts from Republican lawmakers.

In 2021 during Black History Month, King placed third behind Harris with 26 social media posts from Democrats and six from Republicans.

Rounding out the Top 10 are late Congressman John Lewis (21 Democrats), Black History Month Founder Carter G. Woodson (12 Democrats), Shirley Chisholm and President Joe Biden (14 Democrats each), Harriet Tubman and Frederick Douglass (8 Democrats) and Joseph H.  Rainey (7 Democrats), who in 1870 became the first Black Congressman in the U.S. House of Representatives.

In Montgomery, Alabama, on December 1, 1955, Parks, a secretary for the Montgomery chapter of the NAACP, was tired as she rode a bus home from work. She sat in a seat reserved for white people and when the bus driver asked her to give up her seat to a white woman, Parks refused and was arrested.

The incident led to the Montgomery Bus Boycott, where Blacks carpooled to work and some rode Black-owned cabs. The boycott left dozens of buses idle for months and damaged the transit company’s finances. The boycott lasted 381  the city of Montgomery repealed its segregated laws on public buses.