Marcelo Bielsa was relieved of his duties as Leeds manager, following their 4-0 thumping at the hands of Spurs. The Yorkshire club was going through a wretched spell and the sacking of "El Loco" seemed imminent. Leeds had lost their previous 4 PL matches and had shipped in 17 goals in the process. 

Following their loss to Spurs, a dark cloud looms over Elland Road as Leeds find themselves on familiar grounds. Jessie Marsh has been named the new manager of Leeds. In hopes of revitalizing the fortunes of the club and mainly surviving relegation. The sacking of Bielsa has left a bitter taste among the Leeds faithful. Who felt the man "who had transformed their dreams into reality" should have been given more time. 

When "El Loco" arrived at Leeds, he instantly fell in love with the club, the city, and its people. Leeds was once the centerpiece of English football but had lost its shine. Leeds United had long been a sunken ship. The foundations were rotting away from consecutive seasons of mediocracy. The captains who sunk the vessel had long abandoned ship. The Yorkshire club was a lost cause before Bielsa's arrival.

When Bielsa took over as the manager of Leeds United in 2018, the Argentine had a gigantic task of making Leeds relevant again. El Loco not only brought the glory days back to Elland Road. He also made the fans who had only witnessed " heartache and misery" believe again. In the second year of his tenure, the Argentine won the Championship and got Leeds back to the "Promise Land" (PL). Bielsa transformed Leeds with decency, humility, and hard work. Marcelo unified the city of Leeds and brought smiles back to the faces of the people of Leeds. Under Bielsa, Elland Road was joyous, united, and louder than ever. The bond that Bielsa shared with the people of Leeds is unfathomable. 

"Leeds will go down in history as to where Bielsa did some of finest work and shared his happiest memories." Gracias Bielsa, for all the beautiful memories. Though you may be gone, Elland Road will forever sing your name with pride.

"Leeds Carajo"