New Chinese Ambassador to Australia Xiao Qian has been making the right noises ever since he was appointed almost two months back. But the relations between the two countries that nosedived more than a year ago after Australia asked for an investigation into the origin of the coronavirus have not seen an uptick. 

Australia’s Prime Minister Scott Morrison has generated a new controversy by refusing to meet the new ambassador, saying that as as long as “Beijing’s diplomatic freeze” continued, he wouldn’t be comfortable meeting Xiao. 

While some politicians within Australia say that Prime Minister should be generous and try and establish the broken relationship that has been detrimental to several Australian industries, that clearly is not the view taken by Morrison. The recent controversy has also riled up the Chinese. 

The Chinese media is talking about the insult of the Chinese people by Morrison by his stance. According to Chinese media, Morrison has shut the door to communication and by not honoring the request from Xiao. The media is also speculating that Morrison could follow a hard line against China as it could help him in the next general elections. ( https://www.9news.com.au/national/china-ambassador-scott-morrison-chinese-embassy-solomon-islands-anthony-albanese-federal-politics-news/5e442b6d-d322-4bc8-93f2-080eb36c453d )

But Morrison has strong reasons why he doesn’t want to meet the ambassador. “So long as China refuses to have dialogue with Australian ministers and the prime minister, I think that’s an entirely proportional response,” Morrison claimed in a press interaction. He said that ambassador was free to be in touch with the foreign ministry. ( https://www.aa.com.tr/en/asia-pacific/australia-ready-for-positive-relations-with-china-says-pm-morrison/2497057 )

Australian media is speculating that Morrison could also be miffed with the leaking of a draft security deal between China and the Solomon Islands, with rumors claiming the deal could pave the way for China’s ships to be based in the Pacific and to have a navy base. ( https://www.theguardian.com/world/2022/mar/25/chinese-draft-security-deal-with-solomon-islands-didnt-blindside-australia-morrison-says ) Morrison has claimed that The draft did not blindside Australia.

With the Chinese government slapping, crippling trade sanctions on a range of Australian products in retaliation, the country’s trade has gone down and Morrison wants China to withdraw the sanctions and come to the negotiating table on trade. Photo-ops with the ambassador is not his priority.