By BestMediaInfo Bureau Story-telling will always remain at the core of all of Tanishq’s brand campaigns and this festive season the brand is going all out in its marketing approach to reach out to its consumers, said Ranjani Krishnaswamy, General Manager, Marketing and Retail at Tanishq.To mark the festive season, Tanishq recently announced the launch of its new collection ‘Alekhya’- which aims at telling stories about Indian art and celebrating its golden lineage. The new collection, according to the brand, is inspired by Indian paintings and art forms. The brand has also launched three ad films to promote the ‘Pehli Diwali’ campaign, which is planned to give a boost to the new jewellery collection. The campaign aims at giving the word a whole new meaning. Krishnaswamy said, “Pehli Diwali’ is very core to our category, because people buy jewellery on ‘Pehli Diwali’ be it after a wedding or after becoming a mother, and it's always a special occasion. However, when we were talking to people, they told us that Diwali hasn’t been how it used to be for the past two years. However, this time it is going to be big.”“Simultaneously we also heard that the period has made a lot of people stop, reflect and start new things in life: like learning a new language, learning culinary skills or doing something adventurous. So, we thought why should ‘Pehli Diwali’ be just about weddings or motherhood?'' Krishnaswamy said the campaign will be followed up by roping in influencers, as well as a consumer-generated content campaign. Speaking about the brand’s marketing plans for the festive season, she said the brand will not hold back and go all out this festive season.“Our consumer studies say that people are going to come back this Diwali and are looking at jewellery in a very big way. This time it’s going to be a blockbuster and that is our intent and hope. Read More : https://bestmediainfo.com/2022/09/we-are-going-all-guns-blazing-on-marketing-this-festive-season-ranjana-krishnaswamy-of-tanishq