by Lt Gen Rameshwar Yadav (Retd)

The doctrine of ‘Salami Slices’ is an innocuous tactical level nibbling action, not grave enough to up the ante that may escalate into a warlike situation. It invariably follows larger territorial expansion done earlier through occupation or capture of claimed areas through politico-military means.

Such incremental action aims to fine-tune military postures that facilitate tactical advantages of strategic significance. This, in turn, creates leverages for political negotiations that would invariably follow such a forced land grab. The underlying philosophy presupposes acceptance of the change in the status quo by the opponent as a fait accompli — or else, be prepared for punitive consequences.

Surprise is an essential ingredient in such limited encroachments done on the quiet, under the cover of showing the flag with a small force. At times, it is done to draw the opponent’s reaction to assess their operational preparedness and area sensitivity prior to pushing it to the next level. If there is an immediate response in a resolute manner, the toe-hold is rescinded after making their presence felt. If found complacent, the encroachment is consolidated to make it non-viable for eviction without forced accretions. Such an audacious land grab is attempted when there exists a force asymmetry wherein it is considered best to avoid confrontation by the weaker side.

China has perfected this art and is known to practise it in its hegemonic outreaches across the world. It is part of the psychological warfare that plays a major role in pressuring the defender to submit to the Chinese dictates. China moves into small enclaves portraying their offensive act at times as a defensive move to secure their territory. The opponent is taken by surprise despite adequate military deterrence presenting a Hobson’s choice: it is compelled to either silently accept Chinese Salami Slices or risk a confrontation. If challenged, China invariably turns around and blames the opponent for indulging in hostile acts and disturbing peace and tranquillity. Such small multiple military actions cumulatively reduce options to counter their actions pushing the defender on the back foot.

Read the full story here:- https://theprobe.in/doctrine-of-salami-slices-the-chinese-playbook/