Canada’s RCMP Commissioner Brenda Lucki is currently embroiled in a political scandal and is testifying this week before the Mass Casualty Commission (MCC) in Nova Scotia.
The MCC was established as an independent public inquiry into the April 2020 mass shooting in Nova Scotia that left 22 people dead. The Commission’s mandate is to examine the circumstances that led to the mass shooting, police response, related issues like access to firearms and to provide a report of its findings and recommendations to prevent similar incidents from happening.
A series of documents released as part of the inquiry suggest that Lucki assured the prime minister’s office that the RCMP would release information related to the firearms used by the shooter to help the Liberal party’s gun-control legislation. At the time, senior RCMP officials in Nova Scotia refused to release this information to the public to avoid compromising the active police investigation.
Allegations of political interference have been made against Lucki, who has blamed the allegations on “miscommunication.” There are calls for Lucki’s resignation.
It is counterproductive because ousting Lucki from her position will do practically nothing when it comes to depoliticizing police work. In principle, the police are apolitical. In practice, however, the police are very much a political entity.
The politics of policing
The law itself is political. When a government amends the Criminal Code, enforcing the amended law immediately becomes part of the RCMP mandate. In the case of a majority government in Parliament, the administration of an amended law is at the behest of politicians. In other words, political values are inherently encoded into the law.
The police, of course, are legally prohibited from making overtly partisan statements to maintain the public illusion of an apolitical police service. Regardless, the politics of police work can be tricky.
Read more: https://theconversation.com/nova-scotia-mass-casualty-commission-focusing-on-alleged-political-interference-shields-the-rcmps-conduct-189286