Spain are set to play Portugal at the Estadio Benito Villamarín on Thursday in the UEFA Nations League. 

Spain reached the final of the 2020-21 UEFA Nations League. La Roja will play Portugal, Czech Republic twice and Switzerland over the next couple of weeks. Spain won 19 points from their eight matches to top Group B.  La Roja will take on Portugal, Czech Republic twice and Switzerland over the next couple of weeks, and the four fixtures will give head coach Luis Enrique a good chance to have a look at his squad, as he solidifies his plans for the 2022 World Cup.

Portugal had to compete in the playoffs in order to qualify for the 2022 World Cup, winning 3-1 against Turkey in the semi-finals before defeating North Macedonia 2-0 in the finals. In the UEFA Nations League, Fernando Santos' squad will face Ghana, Uruguay, and South Korea. Over the next several weeks, the A Selecao will compete in the UEFA Nations League against Spain, Switzerland twice, and the Czech Republic, and Santos will use the matches to prepare for the World Cup.

Spain vs Portugal: Probable Playing XI

Spain: Unai Simon, Cesar Azpilicueta, Inigo Martinez, Pau Torres, Jordi Alba, Sergio Busquets, Koke, Dani Olmo, Gavi, Alvaro Morata, Ferran Torres

Portugal: Rui Patrício, João Cancelo, Pepe, Domingos Duarte, Raphael Guerreiro, Bruno Fernandes, João Moutinho, Otavio, Bernardo Silva, Cristiano Ronaldo, Rafael Leão

Spain vs Portugal: Prediction

This has all of the makings of a brilliant game of football, and it will be interesting to see how both sides are shaping up ahead of the World Cup. It would not be a surprise to see a home or an away win here, but we have a feeling that a tight fixture could end with the points being shared.

Prediction: Spain 1-1 Portugal

Spain vs Portugal: Telecast & Live Stream

Premier Sports have the rights to televise UEFA Nations League matches in the UK so it is worth checking their schedule for Spain vs Portugal and if it is not televised on Premier Sports, subscribers will be able to stream the match live on Premier Player.