The Rise of Startups in India

Indian startup culture from its beginnings to now

What Is a Startup?

Investopedia defines a startup as “a young company that is just beginning to develop.” It is brought into function either because the founder(s) has come up with a unique solution (a product, software, or service) to erase a complicated problem or because they have found a more efficient way to recreate and distribute something that was already there.

A great Startup is usually a blend of the following:

An idea that is exciting, effective, and feasible at the same time.

Resourceful managers who have the knack for bringing the best out of each employee.

Ability to anticipate future trends and quickly adapt to the rapidly changing business environment.

Experienced mentors who can with their wisdom guide the team through tough times.

The tact to handle tough customers with genuinity, patience, and care.

A mindset that chases purpose before profit.

The Evolution of Startup Culture in India

India is a young country, with 65% of its population falling under the age bracket of 25 to 35 years. The rise of startups in India didn’t happen overnight, but slowly, over a gradual period. However, if one were to pin down the exact year the startup revolution took shape in India, it would be 2008.
We all know about the big recession that hit the world in the year 2008 and forced businesses around the globe to reallocate their resources and lay off employees in large numbers. In India, it mostly affected the IT professionals, who grew extremely fearful for their jobs and started looking for different means to keep themselves afloat.
This fear, along with an insatiable aspiration to prove one’s mettle, shook the young nation and had its people break the shackles of mediocrity and rise to the challenge.

To wrap it up, today’s Indian youth isn’t afraid of casting aside their 9 to 5 jobs to see their dreams take flight and become a living reality. They’re all set to break the ceiling to attain real powerful leadership roles.
Startup hope of employment for upcoming youth generation.