Megan Anna Rapinoe is, an American professional soccer player who plays as a winger and captains OL Reign of the National Women's Soccer League (NWSL), as well as the United States national team. 

She was also an outspoken advocate for for LGBTQ rights and gender equality.

‌She is the winner of the Ballon d'Or Féminin and was named The Best FIFA Women's Player in 2019, Rapinoe won gold with the national team at the 2012 London Summer Olympics, 2015 FIFA Women's World Cup, and 2019 FIFA Women's World Cup and she played for the team at the 2011 FIFA Women's World Cup where the U.S. 
‌
‌She is the first player, male or female, to score a goal directly from a corner at the Olympic Games, having done so twice. She won the Golden Boot and Golden Ball awards at the 2019 FIFA Women's World Cup in France.

She was also an advocate for racial justice. In 2016 she became the first white athlete to kneel during the playing of the national anthem, a movement started by NFL player Colin Kaepernick to protest racism and police brutality against African Americans. 
‌
‌ She previously played for the Chicago Red Stars, Philadelphia Independence, and MagicJack in Women's Professional Soccer (WPS), as well as Olympique Lyon in France's Division 1 Féminine.
‌
‌Rapinoe is a supporter of numerous LGBTQIA+ organizations, including the Gay, Lesbian & Straight Education Network (GLSEN) and Athlete Ally. In 2013, she was rewarded the board of directors Award by the Los Angeles Gay and Lesbian Center. 
‌She is sponsored by Nike, Procter & Gamble, BodyArmor, Hulu, LUNA Bar, Samsung, and DJO Global, and has appeared in numerous promotional articles for clothing company Wildfang, as well as for Nike.

Citing gender discrimination, the team sought pay equal to that of the U.S. men’s soccer team; a documentary about the lawsuit, LFG, appeared in 2021. The following year a settlement was reached in the lawsuit. As part of the deal, players were to receive $24 million, and the federation pledged equal pay for the men’s and women’s teams at future events.

Source: Wikipedia and Britannica