Manchester United are set to announce the arrival of Erik Ten Hag as the permanent club manager from the next season. The Ajax Boss has done a spectacular job at the Dutch side over the years, and has played a huge role in unearthing some rare talents, who have gone onto play for bigger European clubs.

Manchester United have had four managers after Sir Alex Ferguson retired back in 2013. Sadly, none of them have been able to bring back the glory days at Old Trafford. Hence, Erik Ten Hag has a huge responsibility on his shoulders, as he looks to break this managerial curse. In a league which has some of the finest managers, the addition of Erik Ten Hag will only make the league more competitive.

Manchester United have several questions, which they must address in the upcoming summer. Firstly, the club will be awaiting a decision on Paul Pogba's future, but in all honesty, he is expected to leave in search for a new venture. Cristiano Ronaldo's future also hangs in the balance.

Erik Ten Hag is expected to be handed a huge sum of money to make his preferred summer signings. This might include a defensive midfielder, and an all-together new look defence. This building process is surely going to take a bit of time, since Erik Ten Hag will want to instill a style of play. Manchester United have often lack a game style in the past few seasons, something which the new manager will look to resolve. 

At a club like Manchester United, winning a piece of silverware is considered a must every season. However, the Red Devils have now failed to win a title for the last five years, as the United faithful have started growing impatient. A piece of silverware in 2022/23 season would certainly be ideal, but Erik Ten Hag will be focused on laying the groundwork, and bringing in a bunch of quality signings. Moreover, with well-drilled sides like Liverpool, Chelsea and Manchester City present in the league, a title in the first season might just be a bit too much to ask from Erik Ten Hag.