The theme for World Health Day 2022 is Our Planet, Our Health and all have we have gone through this year. It sure was a full rolller coaster ride for every human being. Still the issue of certain factors affecting our Mother Earth remain since  I was reading about them as a child. 
When one lives in a place like India, more so it’s national capital, you know how real these concerns are .  Polluted air, unclean water are thinks your have to deal with everyday. 
The WHO estimates these environmental factors cause over 13 million deaths annually. This covers the climate catastrophe, the world's greatest health concern. Air pollution, on the other hand, is the leading environmental threat to human health-it kills an estimated seven million people per year. STILL?
We all know Ecosystems provide with everything starting from  clean air, water, medicines, and food security for healthy society. Air pollution and greenhouse gas emissions typically share common origins. Most air quality improvements also help battle climate change.
Air pollution is the leading cause of preventable mortality and disease globally. The WHO estimates that air pollution kills 7 million people annually and that 90% of people breathe polluted air. Meeting the Paris Agreement's goals might save a million lives every year by 2050.
Health, water, food, housing and a decent level of living are all affected by poor air quality. Air pollution plainly infringes on the right to a healthy environment.
Air pollution is avoidable. It is well understood that solutions exist are still in the form of legislation and standards. These solutions will require large investments, but the benefits of ensuring everyone's right to clean air are immeasurable. 
In “The Right to Breathe Clean Air” report to the General Assembly of David R. Boyd, UN Special Rapporteur on Human Rights and the Environment (2019), he offers a number of recommendations to States for actions they should consider as part of a national air quality action plan. He also urges businesses to fulfill their responsibility, to contribute to and support efforts to reduce air pollution.