Three things are guaranteed in life: death, taxes, and the media spreading hate on Arsenal.
 
This time a year ago, we sat bottom in the Premier League, losing three games and scoring none. After spending the most out of any European club in the ‘Big Five’ leagues, journalists, pundits, and reporters all flooded to spread their illogical, reactionary takes on the club – with the likes of Gary Neville criticising Arsenal’s recruitment: “I don't get the strategy and l don't get the direction” (Remarkably ironic from a United fan, I know)

A year on, we sit first in the league – four wins from four, playing good football, scoring goals, and impressing all-round. Surely, you’d assume, there’s nothing for the papers to criticise. Wrong. As we saw at times last season, the ‘Celebration Police’ have come out of hibernation to try to drag down Arteta’s unbeaten men.
 
Last weekend, Arsenal completed a dramatic comeback against a then unbeaten Fulham team to win 2-1 and continue our perfect start to the new campaign. Following Gabriel’s mistake that gifted Fulham the lead, the Brazilian scored with less than five minutes left on the clock to win the game. The players celebrated in style, and fans took to social media to share their excitement that the Gunners had won again.
 
Within hours, the media were on our backs, with the likes of Richard Keys, Graeme Souness and Simon Jordan all speaking out about their distaste for the over celebration of the players after the goal, and at full time. The former labelled Arsenal ‘embarrassing’.
 
Over the last 12 months the obsession with criticising celebrations has been growing, and it makes absolutely no sense. When we lose, the media blame the players for a lack of effort and passion; when we win, they blame us for having too much effort and passion.
 
4 games, 12 points. The players are enjoying playing their football, and I am enjoying watching it. I hope we celebrate our future wins even more. Let the haters hate, we’ll do our talking with the Premier League table.