In the third gameweek of the English Premier League, Tottenham Hotspur are all set to host Wolverhampton Wanderers at Tottenham Hotspur Stadium. Tottenham Hotspur and 
Wolverhampton Wanderers registered draws in their previous gameweek fixtures.

In the previous game, Tottenham Hotspur had to fight tooth and nail to take home the points on Sunday. Chelsea led the game twice but staged a comeback both times to take home the point.Antonio Conte will not be on the sideline for Tottenham as he was awarded a red card at the end of the game.

On the other hand, Wolverhampton Wanderers registered the first point of the campaign as they had a stalemate against Fulham. Wolves had lost their first game against Leeds United but are off the blocks.

Tottenham Hotspur vs Wolverhampton Wanderers Match Details 

Match: Tottenham Hotspur vs Wolverhampton Wanderers 

Date and Time: 20th August, 5:00 PM IST 

Venue: Tottenham Hotspur Stadium

Tottenham Hotspur vs Wolverhampton Wanderers Probable Playing XI 

Wolverhampton Wanderers:
Jose Sa; Jonny, James Collins, Max Kilman, Rayan Ait-Nouri; 
Ruben Neves, Hwang Hee-chan, Leon Dendoncker; Kieran Gibbs-White, Daniel Podence, Pedro Neto

Tottenham Hotspur: 
Hugo Lloris; Cristian Romero, Eric Dier, Ben Davies; Palmeri Emerson, Pierre Emile Hojbjerg, Rodrigo Bentancur, Ryan Sessegnon; Dejan Kulusevski, Harry Kane, Heung Min Son

Tottenham Hotspur vs Wolverhampton Wanderers Probable Winners 

Tottenham Hotspur were lucky enough to run away with the point when they played Chelsea at Stamford Bridge. The team will vary of the threats posed by Wolves and we expect them to be ready for the challenge. We expect Conte’s men to take home all three points on Saturday.

Predictions: Tottenham Hotspur 2-0 Wolverhampton Wanderers

Tottenham Hotspur vs Wolverhampton Wanderers Live Stream

The Tottenham Hotspur vs Wolverhampton Wanderers game is available on the Disney+Hotstar application and Star Sports Network. Sky Sports Network will telecast the game for the residents in the UK.

(Image Credits: English Premier league)