Donald Trump's former lawyer and fixer Michael Cohen said Trump told him in 2012 that if one of his kids had to go to prison over the family business to "make sure" it was Donald Jr., not Ivanka.

Speaking to MSNBC on Saturday, Cohen said Trump gave him the instruction when his children were on the verge of being indicted by the Manhattan district attorney's office in 2012.

"You may recall that there was the district attorney's case here for Trump SoHo where it was either Don or Ivanka was in very big trouble as a result of lying about the number of units that had been sold," Cohen told MSNBC's Alex Witt .

"And Donald said it to me – I mean I wouldn't say it if it wasn't said directly to me – he goes, 'If one or the other has to go to prison, make sure that it's Don because Don would be able to handle it.'"

Cohen spoke to MSNBC about the mounting pressure on the Trump family amid investigations into the Trump Organization's financial dealings and the January 6 riot.

New York Attorney General Letitia James has said her investigation into the Trump Organization has "uncovered significant evidence" of fraudulent and misleading asset valuations.

James has taken legal action to enforce the subpoenas issued to Donald Trump and his children Donald Jr. and Ivanka, who she says were "closely involved in the transactions in question."

Meanwhile, the January 6 committee investigating the insurrection has asked Ivanka Trump to voluntarily cooperate with their probe.

Cohen said he believes there is "not a chance" that the former president would offer to cooperate with the investigations to shield his daughter from legal troubles.

"Donald cares only about Donald, more than he would care about his children," Cohen told MSNBC.

Trump's former lawyer also said he believes the chances of the Trump children cooperating with either investigation are "slim to none."

This week, Trump said the "vicious" January 6 committee and New York attorney general are targeting his adult children as part of their investigations.