It is quite commonplace fact that in the history of Bihar that mounds of early Buddhist ruins were used in later historical times as convenient sites for fortified residences or castles by the then ruling chiefs. It is therefore quite likely that the fortifications may have been added later with some building on the lofty mound, inside serving as the citadel, which has come to be known in the local tradition as Nandangarh.

The inscriptions found on the mound are as follows :-

1.   On a terracotta sealing, in the early Brahmi script of about 1st century BC. It reads “Sivadasasa”  i.e. of sivadasa

2.   On a round copper coin in the early Brahmi script of about 1st century BC. It reads “…mada…”, possibly “Ramadatta”.

3.   On a terracotta sealing, in the early Brahmi script of about 1st century BC. It reads “Brahmamit (ra)”

4.   On a square lead piece, in early Brahmi script of about 1st century BC. It reads “Aya- Ritasa” i.e of the Arya Rita

5.   On an inscribed earthen lamp, discovered in Garrick’s excavation, in probably Asokan Brahmi, damaged and undeciphered.

Note on Ashokan Pillars :-

The pillars of Ashoka are a series of columns dispersed throughout the northern Indian subcontinent, erected or at least inscribed with edicts by the Mauryan king Ashoka during his reign in the 3rd century BC. Originally, there must have been many pillars but only nineteen survive with inscriptions. Many are preserved in a fragmentary state. Averaging between forty and fifty feet in height, and weighing up to fifty tons each, all the pillars were quarried at Chunar, just south ofVaranasi and dragged, sometimes hundreds of miles, to where they were erected.

The columns that bear the edicts of Ashoka include the two pillars at Delhi (originally located at Meerut and Topra in Haryana and were brought to Delhi during the reign of Firuz Shah Tughluq in 1356), the pillar at Allahabad (is believed as originally located at Kaushambi) and the pillars found at Lauriya-Areraj, Lauriya-Nandangarh, Rampurva (with lion capital), Sankissa, Sanchi and Sarnath. The columns bearing dedicatory inscriptions were found in Lumbini and Nigalisagar. The pillars found at Vaishali (with single lion capital) and Rampurva (with bull capital) do not bear any edict.

To be continued....