Have you ever thought about how much childhood traumas could affect us while we grow up and become into adults. If you have given it a thought here is a research that proves that childhood traumas could have a link to a risk of getting multiple sclerosis (MS) especially in later life among women. The research was published in the Journal of Neurology Neurosurgery and Psychiatry. 

The findings show that the the traumas were strongly associated with sexual abuse and various other categories of abuse. 

With the evidences we can understand that childhood trauma can make our immune system vulnerable and this increases the risk of autoimmune disease. Poor mental health and physical health in adulthood is formed dye to the abuse, neglect and a chaotic home scenario. But its not yet proved that if all these experiences could elicit and increase a possibility to MS. 

In order to find it out, the experts conducted a study where nearly 78,000 pregnant women who came in for the study between 1999 and 2008 and their health was monitored till 2018. 

From the study informations on childhood abuse before the age of 18 was collected and gathered through questionnaire responses, informations on confirming MS diagnoses was taken from hospital records and national health registry data. 

14,477 women have faced childhood abuse while the remaining 63,520 didn't face any such instance. Woman who had a history of abuse developed smoking habits they were either current or former smokers and it was a risk factor for MS and they were said to have depressive symptoms. 

300 women had MS while the monitoring period was going on  and almost 1 out of 4 (71;24 %) women had been abused as children when compared with 1 in 5 (14,406;19%) women who didn't develop MS 

By the end of the study it was shown that women who had been abused were more likely to have been diagnosed with MS. 

Sources - https://www.news-medical.net/news/20220405/Adverse-childhood-experiences-associated-with-elevated-risk-of-multiple-sclerosis-among-women.aspx