Following the mission of Malnutrition free Chandigarh through Jan Bhagidari during the celebration of 5th Rashtriya Poshan Maah, 2022, till date, approx. 32772 number of activities have been conducted by Department of Women & Child Development in convergence with all line departments of UT Chandigarh. 

		The initiative is about spreading behavioural change and communication (BCC) messages related to maternal, infant and young child care and feeding practices. It also includes other related interventions such as growth monitoring, anaemia management, hygiene and sanitation, awareness on healthy life styles, Preschool Education and alleviating various unhealthy practices related to pregnancy/child birth/child growth related with myths.

		Today, major activities conducted at various Anganwadi Centres include Anemia camp and blood sugar testing at palsora circle. During the camp, 56 beneficiaries have been screening by Dr. Rachana Srivastava, School of Public Health PGIMER Chandigarh. The beneficiaries also sensitized regarding taking iron rich diet i.e. Gur, citric fruits, palak, leafy green vegetables, legumes, low cost healthy recipes. Further, iron folic acid tablets have also been distributed among the beneficiaries. 

		A special awareness generation programme on gender sensitization was organized in village Kaimbwala in Kajheri circle. During the event, discussion held with the local community members to reduce the barriers caused due to discrimination and gender bias. The Adolescent Girls also performed dance based on Women Empowerment has also added value to the event. 

		Another notable events held at Vikas Nagar and Industrial area where the drawing competition on the theme malnutrition, Lecture on nutritional diet to mothers and home visit for child cleanliness have been organized respectively.

		The Nutritional Rehabilitation Centre and Department of Pediatrics, GMSH-16, Chandigarh has initiated a month long (September, 2022) intensive campaign for universal screening of children enrolled in all 450 Anganwadis of Chandigarh for the Elimination of Childhood Malnutrition. In this series, a health checkup camp at Kajheri where approx. 1685 children checked by doctors of which 21 Children have been referred to Nutritional Rehabilitation Centre, UT Chandigarh for further adequate management of malnutrition.