Uttar Pradesh recorded a voting turnout of 60.51% in the first phase of assembly elections on Thursday. 

As many as 623 candidates were in the fray with around 2.27 crore people eligible to vote in this phase in which a total of 58 constituencies spread across 11 districts in the western belt of the state went to the polls.

During the 2017 assembly elections, 63.47% polling was recorded in these constituencies. The BJP then had bagged 53 of the 58 seats in the region, while the Samajwadi Party and the BSP bagged two seats each. One seat had gone to the Rashtriya Lok Dal. 

State ministers whose fate will be decided in this phase include Shrikant Sharma, Suresh Rana, Sandeep Singh, Kapil Dev Agarwal, Atul Garg and Chowdhury Lakshmi Narain.

The second phase of polling in the country's politically most important state will be held on February 14.

Altogether 55 assembly constituencies will go to polls in the second phase covering nine districts of Saharanpur, Bijnor, Amroha, Sambhal, Moradabad, Rampur, Bareilly, Budaun and Shahjahanpur.

In the second phase, 2,01,42,441 voters will cast their votes in around 17,000 polling booths.

In the 2017 elections, the Bharatiya Janata Party had won 40 seats of these 55 assembly seats while the Samajwadi Party won 13 and the Bahujan Samaj Party won 2 seats.

There are different arguments regarding the voting percentage. While one section of political analysts and psephologists claim that low polling percentage goes against the ruling party, the others feel it helps the incumbent government as a high percentage would mean that a large number of people are unhappy with the ruling party. 

So, there is a dip of around 3% polling percentage from 2017 when the BJP swept the polls and ousted the Samajwadi Party. 

The Western part of the state is dominated by Jats and Muslims and the two communities have resisted all attempts at polarising the situation. 

This is also dominated by farmers and the region witnessed a year-long agitation by peasants over the three farm laws that were subsequently withdrawn by the government. 

The region had also witnessed riots in 2013.