1. Parasite
  Year of release: 2019
  The struggling Kim family sees an opportunity when the son starts working for the wealthy Park family. Soon, all of them find a way to work within the same household and start living a parasitic life. Parasite won four awards at the 92nd Acedmy Award.

2. Train To Busan
 Year of release: 2016
Seok-woo and his daughter are on a train to Busan on the latter's birthday to see his wife. However, the journey turns into a nightmare when they are trapped amidst a zombie outbreak in South Korea.

3. Call 
Year release: 2020
Connected by phone in the same home but 20 years apart, a serial killer puts another woman's past -- and life -- on the line to change her own fate.

4. hellbound
Year release: 2021
 Unearthly beings deliver condemnations, sending individuals to hell and giving rise to a religious group founded on the idea of divine justice.

5. Sweet Home
Year release: 2020
 As humans turn into savage monsters, one troubled teenager and his neighbours fight to survive and to hold onto their humanity.

6. Forgotten
Year of release: 2017
 When his abducted brother returns, seemingly a different man with no memory of the past 19 days, Jin-seok chases after the truth behind the mysterious kidnapping.

7. The Handmaiden
 Year of release: 2016
A Japanese woman hires a handmaiden, but little does she know that her employee is working hand in glove with a con man to cheat her out of her wealth.

8. Old Boy
Year of release: 2003
A man, held captive for no apparent reason for years, is given a cell phone, money and expensive clothes and released. Unless he finds out the identity of his captor, an even worse fate awaits him.

9. Memories Of Murder
 Year of release: 2003
 A former serial killer who has Alzheimer's disease must protect his beloved daughter from her psychotic boyfriend.

10.  Pandora
 Year of release: 2016
A nuclear power plant is built in a rural town, but soon an earthquake causes the power plant to explode, exposing the people to radiation.
8.