Napoli, Atalanta lead with 17 points as Milan, Inter and Roma fall on Matchday 7. 
Udinese are surprising all the football lovers with their performance and play. The team which finished at 12th in the previous season were a totally changed side in the start of the season. Udinese coach Andrea Sottil is a new name to the Serie A, who has been their defender for 4 years (1999-2003). He started the season with a 4-2 loss against the defending champions Milan followed by a goalless draw against Salernitana. 
They are getting better and better with each match. Ex Barca player Gerard Deulofeu is leading the attack wearing the 10 number jersey. They have scored 15 goals scored so far, by 9 different players. That is their strength. Portuguese player Beto leads with 4 goals for the team. Isaac Success (Nigeria), Lovric(Slovenia), Udogie(Italy), Arslan(Germany, captain Pereyra(Argentina) are supporting the attack with good coordination. Italian Sylvestri is the goalkeeper and the defending team is led by Brazilian Becao, who has played 100 matches with Udinese. 
Inter, Juventus situation
After missing the title by a narrow margin, Inter was hoping to claim it this season. But, in 7 matches, they have lost 3, without a draw. Their next match is against a well organised Roma. They conceded 3 goals each when they lost (3-1 to Lazio and Udinese, 3-2 to Milan). Their wins against Lecce (90+5' Dumfries) and Torino (89' Brozovic) were narrow. 
Record champions Juventus are struggling with 2 wins and 4 draws and 1 loss. Three of their major players are facing suspension issues too- Cuadrado, Di Maria and Milik are out with red cards. Their wins remain only with Sassualo in the opening match and Spezia. Scoring is a concern even with players like Vlahovic, Di Maria, Paredes, Chiesa in the team. Vlahovic has scored 4 so far. Hopefully they come into their strength before their match against Milan on Oct 8. 
Bologna's Marko Arnautovic has scored 6 goals and Ciro Immobile is again cruising ahead in the scorers table with 5 goals. 