There are so many ways to maintain your mental and physical well-being, from talking to a therapist to regularly exercising. But one thing that many forget to do in the realm of wellness is to check in with themselves mentally, and one of the easiest ways to do that is with mindful meditation.

For many, starting — and committing — can be incredibly difficult. But the benefits of mindful meditation are seemingly endless.

If you aren't familiar with the art of meditation,Very Well Mind describes it as a practice that uses various tactics to heighten awareness and alter focus. It generally involves sitting, standing, or lying down in a comfortable position, while silencing out your surroundings, or engaging with a guide. You can hone in on your breathing, a mantra, or simply the comforting sound of silence.

Regardless of how you go about doing it, meditation has one common goal: it halts your string of thoughts.

Even though there's no right or wrong way to meditate, Very Well Mind recommends dedicating five to 20 minutes to the practice regularly. However, the duration of your sessions can vary.

Longer sessions generally tend to generate more benefits, but the important thing is to get any at all. Meditating on the regular can increase one's focus; ease psychological symptoms such as stress, depression, and anxiety; increase mental resilience; and improve one's entire outlook on life.

Although it doesn't quite get your blood flowing like regular exercise, it can help with physical issues related to stress. For example, it stimulates the parasympathetic nervous system, which causes the body to stop releasing stress hormones that can increase blood pressure, heart rate, and cholesterol levels.

It also helps with sleep, and lowers inflammation, which is linked to heart issues, and other ailments.

Ultimately, meditation benefits the brain, which is what takes the most control over your emotions. Therefore, regular meditators can reap some seriously awesome emotional health benefits, too.

Regular meditation can help with coping with negative emotions, and it can aid in changing the way you think. Meditation can even help with decision-making, it can reduce aggression, increase positive emotions, and far more