In a series of hearings that have received prime-time coverage and much public attention, Cassidy Hutchinson’s testimony on the afternoon of June 28 contained perhaps the most explosive revelations thus far.

Speaking before a hastily called hearing of the House Select Committee to Investigate the January 6 Attack on the United States Capitol, Hutchinson, a former aide to White House Chief of Staff Mark Meadows, revealed that former President Donald Trump was warned about the potential for violence at the Jan. 6 rally and nevertheless wanted security precautions lifted, including the use of magnetometers to detect weapons. She also testified that a furious Trump tried to grab control of the steering wheel of his SUV from his Secret Service driver so he could be driven to the Capitol, not the White House, after the rally.

The hearings have provided a meticulously crafted narrative of the events that led to – and took place on – Jan. 6, 2021. Yet despite the revelatory and unique content of these hearings, the select committee’s work represents only a small fraction of the steady stream of oversight work Congress conducts every day.

Oversight, broadly speaking, may best be described as information gathering that is not directly related to a specific bill under consideration by Congress. In the 116th Congress, which met from 2019 to 2020, the House alone held 405 hearings not related to specific pieces of legislation.

What is the nature of this less prominent oversight work? Why is this work important?

‘Police patrol’ vs. ‘fire alarm’
The political scientists Matthew McCubbins and Thomas Schwartz have classified Congress’ nonlegislative work as consisting of “police patrol” oversight and “fire alarm” investigations.

“Fire alarm” probes are initiated when something specific has gone wrong: a protest that turns violent, perhaps; the government’s poor response to a natural disaster; or an agency that is caught wasting taxpayer money. 

Read more: https://theconversation.com/jan-6-hearings-are-only-the-tip-of-the-iceberg-when-it-comes-to-important-congressional-oversight-hearings-185369