We have seen a rapid increase in the air pollution, global warming and such scenarios. U.N health agency now says that everyone in the world breathes air that doesn't meet upto a mark in air quality. Which demands for actions to reduce fossil-fuel use which develops pollutants that can lead to respiratory and blood flow problems that takes us to millions of deaths that occur every year, which could be preventable. 

WHO said 99 percent of the global population breathes air that exceeds its air-quality limits and is often rife with particles that can penetrate deep into the lungs, enter the veins and arteries, and cause disease. Air quality is poorest in WHO’s Eastern Mediterranean and Southeast Asia regions, followed by Africa, it said. 

According to the reports collected by WHO, it says that almost 99 per cent of the people worldwide exhales air that crosses the air quality levels and in general the air that we breath contains particles that could enter our lungs and spreads out to to our veins and arteries which later becomes a cause of disease. In WHO's Eastern Mediterranean and Southeast Asia regions, along with Africa has the poorest quality of air. 
Dr. Maria Neira, head of WHO’s department of environment, climate change and health, said that, “After surviving a pandemic, it is unacceptable to still have 7 million preventable deaths and countless preventable lost years of good health due to air pollution,”

WHO said that, “Particulate matter, especially PM2.5, is capable of penetrating deep into the lungs and entering the bloodstream, causing cardiovascular, cerebrovascular (stroke) and respiratory impacts,” 

Measures to control this air pollution and to subside the toxic contents in the air we breath, demands certain changes that needs to come. 

India and other countries around the world have to find resort to other alternatives and need to adapt some major changes which could improve the quality of the air and decrease air pollution. Some of the measure can be electric vehicles, a shift from fossil fuels, sperating the household wastes and so on can be few measures that we can take upon. 


Sources - https://www.nbcnews.com/science/environment/says-99-percent-worlds-population-breathes-poor-quality-air-rcna22822