It started with staging first Bengali drama ‘Dakhineswar’ at Chandigarh’s Tagore Theatre in May 1972, followed by a screening of a National award winning Bengali movie ‘Malyadan’ based on a short story by Rabindratnath Tagore at CISO (Central Scientific Instruments Organisation) Auditorium.

On July 30, 1972, the Bengali community residing in Chandigarh officially formed a socio cultural organisation ‘Bangiya Sanskritik Sammilani’ to keep Bengali culture and tradition alive at their new home in the heart of North India, over 2000km away from their native land.

Five decades later, the Bengali community is celebrating the golden jubilee of its cultural journey in Chandigarh by organizing a two-day event on July 30 and 31, 2022.

“On the first day, a cultural evening will be held at Tagore Theatre. It will showcase the rich culture of Bengal presented by the Bengali community residing in the tri-city. The highlight of the event will be 'Saptarathi Bangalee', a musical cum script and drama presentation, depicting the eternal journey of bravery of the sons and daughters of Bengal in the pre-independence era who stood up to the evil practices prevalent at that time. It will be followed by a rich Bengali folk music and dance presentation 'Matir Kachakachi',” says Anindu Das, president, Bangiya Sanskritik Sammilani.  

The second day event will be held at Banga Bhawan (in Sector 35) – the headquarters of the Bangiya Sanskritik Sammilani. Punjab governor Banwarilal Purohit will be the chief guest at an event where he will honour some of the prominent members of the Bengali community, who have outstanding contributions in different fields. This will be followed by a cultural programme including a short drama and songs.

The governor will also inaugurate the golden jubilee wall at the Banga Bhawan. The wall shows the journey of 50 years of Bangiya Sanskritik Sammilani.

“In Chandigarh we have over 500 Bengali speaking families and being far away from home have been striving to keep alive our Bengali culture. We regularly organise Durga Puja, Kali Puja, Saraswati Puja, Rabindra Jayanti, Nazrul Jayanti, Swami Vivekananda Jayanti, Netaji Jayanti, Bangla Bhasha Diwas, Poila Baishak etc,” says the organization’s general secretary Prabal Syam. 