Found this interesting article in the current issue of Lancet psychiatry. September 2022. 
Sharing read on 
Except and link below

In 2013, visual artist, filmmaker, and psychotherapist Stephen Rudder was wrestling with negative portrayals of Black people in the media. “All the stories that I heard at the time were either violent or sexualised”, he says. “There's just something about Black men that I was trying to work out for myself anyway, so I wanted to research that and how they interacted with mental health, and I naively just didn’t know what was going on. When I did the research, I was kind of shocked.”
In the UK, Black people are four times more likely to be sectioned under the Mental Health Act, 17 times more likely to be diagnosed with a serious mental health condition, and more likely to experience poor outcomes from treatment than any other racial and ethnic groups. These alarming findings sparked a fire in Rudder and caused significant changes to his personal and professional life.
“I was getting a bit fed up with my practice anyway”, he says. “I was doing a lot of [film] work for UNESCO, museums, and cultural institutions [where] people just don’t really allow you to just express yourself. So, I put together a proposal to make a piece of film and applied for some funding from a kind of well known scientific funding organisation, but it was turned down”. Rudder had aimed to document and get to the root of why Black people, men in particular, faced such inequalities in the mental health system. Despite being assured of success by a grant funding writer, his idea fell victim to racist barriers and gatekeepers who labelled the project as biased. As a result of that rejection, Rudder decided to train as a psychotherapist as he believes it's important for clinicians to have a deeply personal understanding of the lives of those affected. “Often we hear about Black men's mental health but it's not from the voice of the people”, Rudder adds. 


https://www.thelancet.com/journals/lanpsy/article/PIIS2215-0366(22)00266-8/fulltext