Personal Development is about investing in ourselves to effectively manage ourselves no matter what life brings us. Instead of making good things happen, we can make them happen. The development of personality is first of all the conversation since listening is something magnetic like the creative force and the friend who listens to us attracts us and also when someone is talking to you, it promotes the art of active listening such as nodding your head. When you listen to them, they will talk to you and try to connect something they said to you. It becomes important that we always look friendly and have warm and grateful smiles that automatically draw people to us. For ourselves because having an optimistic attitude allows us to express our joy and gratitude to others and not only build relationships but also find a great way to combat potential stress. As self-actualization, becoming all that you can become refers to self-actualization and the need to reach your full potential as a unique person.  The third important factor is about sharing secrets opening up a new and honest way of seeing and meeting each other and a higher quality in their leader conversations and for people to consider you trustworthy enough to be trusted and diverse with our opinions to be more viable with our words of choice as a charismatic person can talk fluently on a wide range of topics so the key is to develop a passion and interest in different topics while being sensitive to others and respecting their preferences thoughts and opinions and to be relatable. 

Personal development helps you develop an impressive personality and sets you apart from the rest. As we all aspire for a good personality, nothing comes easy because unless we invest in ourselves being patient inculcating perspective on life that is imperative to be presentable. 

Personal development helps you develop an impressive personality and sets you apart from the rest. As we all aspire to a good personality, but nothing comes easy because unless we invest in ourselves being patient, and slowly inculcating a perspective on life that is respectful, loving, and pleasing