By Vivek Gupta

Chandigarh: In July 2020, Harpal Cheema, state finance minister in Bhagwant Mann-led Aam Aadmi Party in Punjab, slammed the then Congress government for approving a textile project in the vicinity of Mattewara forest and Sutlej River in Ludhiana district. 

Out of 955.6 acres earmarked for the project, 492 acres were already in government possession. The remaining land was to be added by purchasing shamlat (Common area) land of three villages of which biggest chunk of 416 acres was of Sekhowal panchayat.

It was in this Sekhowal village that Cheema, the then leader of the opposition, joined the public protest and went on to allege that the project was conceived to benefit the “land mafia”. 

“AAP will not let this happen and strongly oppose the project in assembly,” Cheema declared. 

He was not the only AAP leader to visit Mattewara. Kultar Singh Sandhwan, a two-time MLA from Kotkapura and the current speaker of Punjab Vidhan Sabha, was the strongest critic of this project.

Even AAP's two-time MLA Sarvjit Kaur Manuke from Jagraon (Ludhiana district) participated in public protest against the project and strongly demanded to scrap the project.

The then AAP state president Bhagwant Mann and now Punjab chief Minister too issued a statement, alleging that the Congress government was not bothered about the environment.

After the Congress government was badly defeated, Punjab’s environment activists, locals of Ludhiana district and several other affected stakeholders were hopeful that the new AAP government would reverse the wrongdoings of the previous government.

This was the reason AAP managed to get such a huge mandate in the history of Punjab assembly elections when it won 92 out of 117 assembly segments.

But all were left shocked when Bhagwant Mann, during his government’s first state budget last month, announced a mega integrated textile region and Apparel Park under the centre’s PM-Mitra scheme on the same land that the previous Congress government identified for a similar textile project. 

Read the full story here:- https://www.newsdrum.in/national/punjab-aaps-double-speak-exposed-as-save-sutlej-mattewara-forest-campaign-gains-momentum-55035.html