Flooded out by a dam and ignored by a Pakistani government that did not care what happened to them, the refugees walked for days across the border and lived in a series of refugee camps before making their home in what is today Arunachal Pradesh. Most Chakma refugees were born in India but, despite an India-Bangladesh pact, two Supreme Court orders and a new citizenship law, not one has got citizenship, leaving them vulnerable to populist harangues, violence, and as hostility to them continues in Arunachal, to losing their homes all over again.

Kripadhan Karbari was 26 years old in the summer of 1964, when water from the reservoir of the Kaptai dam permanently flooded the homes and farms of about 100,000 from his tribe in what was then East Pakistan.

From their home in the Chittagong Hill Tracts, or CHT as he called it, in what is now southeastern Bangladesh, Karbari and thousands  from his Chakma tribe began walking, crossed the Indian border through the Lushai Hills in what is today Mizoram and sought asylum. 

“We walked for a week,” said Karbari, now 86, a slightly built, hunched, unsmiling man with a shock of white hair. “We were initially skeptical about moving to India, but I heard on the radio that the migrants coming from CHT would be given refugee status and rehabilitation.” 

About 18,000 homes and more than 1,000 sq km of land were submerged by the Kaptai, permanently displacing a quarter of what are called the Jumma people, the collective term used for about 11 indegenious tribes, among them the Chakma, who are Buddhist. With the Chakma came the Hajong, who follow a folk religion mixed with Hinduism.

Karbari and his fellow Chakma reached a refugee camp called Demagiri, where Indian officials made a record of their arrival and gave them food and cash. When Assam expressed inability to shelter the Chakma, alternatives were sought in the sparsely populated land to its north. 

Read more- https://article-14.com/post/57-years-after-india-gave-them-refuge-former-refugees-from-east-pakistan-threatened-by-indian-xenophobia-61f9f4b18da1f