It was a long time desire for Star Wars fans to see the period of Obi Wan’s exile on Tatooine, from the aftermath of ROTS till before the start of ANH. 

When Disney finally delivered it in the form of a miniseries, well the emotions were all over the place.

 Thanks to the abominable sequel trilogy and infusing Star Wars with the colours of a damn rainbow, expectations were not particularly high.

Surprisingly though, Disney did a quite a decent job with the whole show, albeit with a bunch of flaws. 

For starters, making it a miniseries of just six episodes with most episodes being only 30+ minutes was simply inadequate to cover such a crucial character’s story.

Then the several inconsistencies and plot holes in the show really stand out like an open wound, in fact they are too many to sum up, but the entire premise of the show made little sense. 

The lack of Qui Gon training Obi Wan and him just regaining his strength after a decade of being rusty was a great drawback and needed a lot more time to develop.

 Most of all however, the show lost track of itself several times by introducing one of the worst Star Wars characters ever, Third Sister Reva. Not only is this character garbage, but making her one of the main characters was a horrible choice and just bad writing. The show literally at times became ‘The Reva Show’.

But it did manage to do several things well. For one, bringing back Ewan and Hayden was rad, both are fantastic actors born to play Obi Wan and Anakin. 

Vader has also never appeared cooler and more frightening, while exploring the constant conflict between Vader and Anakin and the dynamic between Obi Wan and Vader was done brilliantly.

Then of course we had the finale which was brilliant and tied the loose ends very well, with the show delivering some incredible Star Wars moments . 

In conclusion, this was a pretty good show which respected Star Wars, but was a cauldron of lost potential and opportunities,  suffering from shoddy direction and writing.


Score: 7.5/10