This story goes back to the era of British rule when the colonials thought of enrouting the Kalka –Shimla Rail line. The colonizers gave the contract for constructing the track to a privately funded Delhi-Ambala-Kalka Railway Company following the signing of a contract between the secretary of state and the company on 29 June 1898.The work started under the supervision of Colonel Barog. The routing got struck in between when colonel Barog took a wrong decision of digging a tunnel in a mountain from both sides and as the digging process was in its way the engineers found that the proper alignment to the tunnel could not be found, the British government fined Barog  (Just Rupee 1) with accusations of wasting the property of the government. Colonel Barog in humiliation committed suicide. He was buried near the incomplete tunnel which is named after him (Barog Tunnel-Barog is a hill station in Solan district in the Indian state of Himachal Pradesh).The work was then assigned to Chief Engineer HS Harrington.  Harrington and his team with all there instruments got strucked in the hurdle and were helpless to find the way out for alignment.Turning point, Baba Bhalku ( resident of Jhajja village near Chail in Solan district Himachal Pradesh) appeared in the scene who was guided by the local deity to trace the right pathway. His only instrument was a long solid wooden staff which he used to hit in the mountain wall inside the tunnel and on the basis of the resonance he use to instruct the engineers to delve the point.His snap judgement and the wooden staff guided Harringtons engineers in most of the remaining tunnels which saved time. Bhalku Ram was the legend behind the success of this arduos and ambitios project which got completed in the year 1903. And yet few Indians know about the man who is believed to have played a pivotal role in building this outstanding feat of engineering .
Today the “2ft 6in” Kalka-Shimla Railway long narrow-gauge has the steepest incline or that it delves through 102 tunnels, the largest of which is over 1,000 metres and is in the list of world Heritage Site.Kudoos to the legendary engineer (Baba Bhalku).

 

 

.