Long covid symptoms are a reality, but do you know people in Europe are spending thousands of Euros to get rid of symptoms like extreme fatigue, chest pain, breathlessness. 
Some clinics in Europe are offering something called blood washing. Technically it’s not that it’s therapy which include some anticoagulant drugs and apheresis- Apheresis, in which large needles are inserted into the veins and the blood is filtered, removing lipids and inflammatory proteins.
According to an article written by Madlen Davies In British Medical Journal earlier this week. People are visiting these clinics and spending not less than €12000 to €15000 for the therapy.
However without any clinical trials, the therapy doesn’t have many takers among the medical fraternity. 
Read the interesting article here 

Patients with long covid are travelling to private clinics in Cyprus, Germany, and Switzerland for blood washing—
Gitte Boumeester, a trainee psychiatrist in Almelo, the Netherlands, was infected with SARS-CoV-2 in November 2020. She was tired for weeks afterwards but chalked it up to the virus. Soon, she was experiencing such extreme fatigue that it took her two hours to walk to the kitchen to make breakfast. She had brain fog and heart palpitations, was short of breath, often felt sick, and woke up in the night with chest pain. A battery of tests found nothing wrong with her heart or lungs, and she was sent back to her GP. She left her job in November 2021, after two failed attempts to go back to work.

She joined a Facebook group for patients with long covid, many of whom discussed travel to Germany for apheresis, what some of them call a “blood washing” treatment. A new clinic offering apheresis for long covid patients, called the Long Covid Center, was opening in Cyprus, and she could be treated there in March. “I thought, what’s the worst thing I’ve got to lose?” she said. “Money was the only thing. I thought, OK, well, why not give it a try?”

Two months later she was back home in the Netherlands, with no improvement in her symptoms. 

Read more https://www.bmj.com/content/378/bmj.o1671