 Unveiling the trailer for the serialized adaptation of Neil Gaiman’s visionary graphic novel The Sandman, Netflix seems to have done a great job from the looks of it. For the unversed, The Sandman is a sort of dark fantasy series with elements of epic fantasy and mythology that focuses on an entity known as Dream, an anthropomorphic personification of dreams and the lord of dreams itself.

He is one of the immortal cosmic family of other such anthropomorphic personifications of metaphysical forces and entities called The Endless (consisting of Death, Desire, Delirium, Despair and Destiny). He resides in the realm of Dreaming and the graphic novel deals with his attempts to deal with the process of change, looking at how it can be for an immortal billion year old entity who has only ever seen things being done his way has a problem adapting to change.

The trailer of the show boasts tremendous VFX and an aura faithful to the graphic novel, overall representing the vision of Sandman writer Neil Gaiman very well in live action. The brand-new series adapts those comics Gaiman made with Sam Keith, Mike  Drigenberg, and others. Gaiman has also written and executively produced the Netflix show with David S. Goyer along with the showrunner Allan Heinberg.

The series deals with how Dream is captured in an occult ritual and is held captive for more than 106 years. After finally attaining his freedom, Dream sets out to his land of Dreaming to repair his kingdom, which has since then fallen into disrepair and how his absence for such a long time has unleashed strong forces in the mix that can change both the dreaming and also the waking worlds forever.

To restore order, Dream must journey along the different worlds and undo the various mistakes he’s made in his vast existence, revisit old friends and enemies, visit new cosmic entities and humans along the way.

A part of the DC Universe mythos,The Sandman premieres on August 5th and stars Tom Sturridge, Gwendoline Christie, Jenna Coleman, Vivienne Acheampong , Kirby Howell-Baptiste , Asim Chaudhry , Sanjeev Bhaskar, Mark Hamill and Patton Oswalt .  