You only realize that the world is perfectly imperfect when the finest pedigree of caliber starts to get doubted. Failure is an inherent part of any athlete’s life. But the professionals are believed to have a possible way out, keeping that deadbeat within the certain limits. But unfortunately for Virat Kohli, the drought at the highest level has been prolonged to an inconceivable extent.

Yes, the same Kohli who grinded the very best of the bowling attacks in the world. Scoring runs for fun in varying conditions. Consistency, Class, and valor defined him regardless of the format he was in. Assembling 70 centuries in around a decade perfectly sums it all.

Pick any chart indicating the all-time batting records, you will find Virat somewhere in there. He holds countless records spread across the three formats of the game, though mentioning all of them.

He currently averages 58.07 & 51.5 in ODI and T-20 format respectively. With an average of a tad under 50 in the longer format, 49.95 precisely. With an international career that spans over 14 years, these numbers are nothing but gigantic.

A stylish 136 against Bangladesh in the pink ball test played at Eden Gardens Kolkata in November 2019, and deafening silence afterward as far as the centuries are concerned. The strive for the 71st ton now ages over a span of 71 unsuccessful tries in a period of two and half years.

The concerns intensify seeing the horrid times Virat is facing in the ongoing edition of the Indian Premier League. The right-hander managed a paltry sum of 128 runs in the 9 outings he had at a dismal average of 16 and strike rate of 119.

A downward spiral in performances is naturally followed by diminishing confidence. More so, in this case due to the enormous amount of expectations that are allied with him.

The captaincy fiasco didn’t help the already shaken confidence of India’s main man. Kohli was removed from the ODI captaincy, soon after his desire to leave the T-20 captaincy.

All and all, Virat Kohli currently finds himself in a dark corner.