Fenugreek has several purported health benefits, especially for females—such as increasing breast milk production, relieving menstrual cramps, and improving sex drive.
Available in various forms including powders, capsules, and oils, fenugreek is also believed to help with other medical conditions in both men and women. You must, however, consult your doctor before consuming any herbal supplements, especially if you have any underlying health conditions or are taking any medications. 
Pregnant or lactating women must avoid taking fenugreek or other supplements without getting approval from their healthcare provider.
What is fenugreek?
Fenugreek (Trigonella foenum-graecum) is a clover-like fragrant herb that belongs to the pea family (Fabaceae). The plant is native to southern Europe and the Mediterranean region and is cultivated in Central and Southeastern Europe, western parts of Asia, India, and Northern Africa.
Dried leaves and aromatic seeds of the fenugreek plant are used in various cuisines and herbal medicines. Fenugreek seeds have a distinct aroma and a bitter taste resembling maple syrup or reminiscent of burnt sugar.
7 health benefits of fenugreek for females ; 
1 Increases breast milk production: Some studies have reported that fenugreek—in the form of tablets or tea—improves milk production in lactating women by stimulating the mammary glands. There is, however, a lack of evidence to support this claim.
2 Relieves menstrual cramps: Fenugreek has been shown to relieve dysmenorrhea, or painful menstrual periods. According to some studies, women who took fenugreek supplements reported a reduced need for painkillers for menstrual cramps. Fenugreek seed powder can be taken 3 times a day in a dose of 1,800-2,700 mg for the first 3 days of a menstrual period, then followed by 900 mg fenugreek seed powder 3 times a day for the next 2 days of the menstrual cycle.
3 Improves sex drive: Fenugreek may help improve sex drive and stamina in women by increasing levels of the hormone estrogen. For women with a low sex drive, taking 600 mg of a specific fenugreek seed extract,may help improve symptoms. 
Read more - https://www.medicinenet.com/what_are_the_benefits_of_fenugreek/article.htm 