Boris Johnson’s time as prime minister comes to an end next week, giving us all a chance to consider what his legacy will be. More than his predecessors, Johnson owed his premiership to his reputed ability to persuade audiences other Conservatives couldn’t, through his charisma, unpredictability and energetic campaigning.
His rhetorical flair continued once he was in Number 10, though frequent fumbles may last longer in collective memory. Here are five quotes that define Johnson’s time as PM.
The doubters, the doomsters, the gloomsters – they are going to get it wrong again. The people who bet against Britain are going to lose their shirts.
This quote, from his first speech as PM shows Johnson’s main strategy during his early premiership, which was to attack his opponents’ character. Instead of disproving arguments about Brexit directly, he urged audiences to view warnings as evidence of doubters’ negative attitudes, not evenhanded assessments.
Johnson framed politics as a choice between those who backed Britain, and those who bet against it. This was his version of a traditional right-wing populist framing, which divides patriotic supporters from treacherous opponents. His characteristic move was to keep this aggressive division, but soften its terminology.
The weeks ahead will be the hardest yet but I really do believe that we are entering the last phase of the struggle. Because with every jab that goes into our arms, we are tilting the odds against COVID and in favour of the British people.
Thanks to the miracle of science, not only is the end in sight and we know exactly how we will get there. But for now, I am afraid, you must once again stay at home, protect the NHS and save lives.
Emerging just months after his election victory, coronavirus dominated Johnson’s premiership. This quote, from the end of a January 2021 broadcast announcing a third national lockdown, shows Johnson’s typical approach to the pandemic.
Read more: https://theconversation.com/five-quotes-that-define-boris-johnsons-time-as-prime-minister-189357
