Nevertheless, Evelyn learns to recognize the beauty of her husband’s perspective who declares to her “When I choose to see the good side of things, I'm not being naive. It is strategic and necessary.” For the rest of it, Evelyn imparts this lesson of freedom in our choices to her daughter, encouraging her to find happiness, beauty, creativity- boldly introduces Becky to her father and in the end, accepts that despite this radical realisation she might still want to go ahead with eradicating her existence- escaping the pain but all this while, she didn’t have to- she could just focus on sloppy live-in-the-moment happiness. The Wired writes that “Everything Everywhere doesn't just reject cynicism, it refutes it. And that might be its most defining value. It, quite literally at times, stares into the void and doesn't blink as the void stares back.” 

Even here I’m just touching the surface of layers and layers of overlying meaning- the universal jumping itself, just to take an example, was a metaphor for sensory overload, executive dysfunction and ADHD- which the director was diagnosed with while researching for the movie, in fact and I’ve hardly seen anything as accurate. 
For a science fiction movie to not rely on pure shock value is a feat in itself but to actually drive character arcs through the multiverse plot, and offer a flow of inputs that allows the audience to experience the “too much” and carry them back from there requires true creative visionaries, ones that think that butts are the most intimate parts, that dust can be snorted up like cocaine, that use sentient rocks to show the simplicity and stillness that meaning can take the form of. 

Now, this is somewhat of an understanding, at least on paper, already- this post states it, you’ve already read it in a blog or a youtube video in passing. But, perhaps it is when we see a dad fight villains with a fanny pack, and a mom wearing a cardigan with ‘Punk’ cluelessly written all over at its back that this message can sink in, that it can come back from when we need it.