The arrival of eight cheetahs from Namibia on September 17, is going to prove to be a historic occasion, 70 years after the government declared them extinct in 1952.  On that day, these cheetahs will be released in the protected area of ​​Kuno National Park in Madhya Pradesh. Cheetahs have been associated not only with Indian culture but also with Indian royalty.  However, during the Mughal period, cheetahs were domesticated for hunting, which led to their declining numbers, as they could not breed when in captivity.
By the year 1947, there were three cheetahs left in the country, but after they were hunted by Maharaja Ramanuj Prasad Singh Deo of Koriya (present-day Chhattisgarh), the cheetahs disappeared from the country.  In the 1970s and again in 2009, however, plans were made to bring cheetahs from abroad.  The idea was to bring Asiatic cheetahs first, but due to their small numbers and weak genetic pool in Iran, it was decided to bring cheetahs from Africa, but the SC was not in its favour. But in 2020, when the National Tiger Conservation Authority sought permission from the Supreme Court to bring cheetahs from African countries, referring to the extinction of the Indian species, the top court allowed it to be implemented as a pilot project. 
Under this, after bringing eight cheetahs from Namibia, 12 more are to be fetched from South Africa in October.  If the cheetah population is to be ascertained in the country, then at least 500 cheetahs will be needed in the coming years.  Since the cheetah population in South Africa is increasing at the rate of eight percent annually, plans are to bring cheetahs from there only.  But all this will depend on the success of this pilot project.
Firstly, it remains to be seen whether African cheetahs can adapt themselves to the Indian environment, as relocation is very challenging for wildlife species.  Leopards also live in the Kuno National Park where they are yet to be released, which can threaten their existence.  But if all goes well, then in the coming years, we could witness a thriving population of cheetahs in the country.