As cases of Covid-19 variant Omicron are fast decreasing, a new sub variant of the virus—called BA.2 – is keeping the World Health Organisation (WHO) on edge. The sub-variant is gradually replacing the other Omicron sub-variant BA.1 which first made its appearance in South Africa in November and has been raging across the world. 

The BA.2 was first reported by Denmark and now the sub variant is dominating in many Asian countries, including India, Bangladesh, China and Philippines. According to WHO now this new sub variant constitutes at least 1 out of 5 new cases of Omicron across the world. 

The US Centers for Disease Control (CDC) is also closely monitoring BA.2, but says there is still no evidence that it is more severe than BA.1.

Some laboratory experiments and early research, however, claim that the new sub variant is spreading faster than the first (BA.1), is more severe and could defeat some of the key weapons developed against Covid-19.  For instance, new lab experiments from Japan show BA.2 is as virulent as the older variant Delta that infected and killed a large number of people across the world. Like Omicron BA.1 it can evade two doses of vaccine and also some treatments with specific monoclonal antibodies. Kei Sato who did the study at University of Tokyo has argued for considering BA.2 as a new variant, not a sub variant of Omicron.   

Virologist David Ho’s early research – not yet thoroughly reviewed by peers – also found that both BA.2 and BA.1 is capable of neutralising antibodies in people who had been vaccinated or infected with the coronavirus previously.

But these are early studies and they need to be validated in the real world, beyond laboratories. Until then, the best precaution is to stick to the mask mandates. Simply put, it’s too early to throw away the masks and remove all Covid restrictions.     

READ MORE:

 https://edition.cnn.com/2022/02/17/health/ba-2-covid-severity/index.html

https://www.nature.com/articles/d41586-022-00471-2

https://www.nytimes.com/live/2022/02/17/world/global-cases-are-dropping-but-an-omicron-subvariant-is-spreading-the-who-says