President Joe Biden said on Friday that the US will defend “every inch" of NATO territory, even if it means World War III, while rejecting calls to intervene directly in Ukraine by establishing a no-fly zone, which would almost certainly result in a shootout with Russia.

Biden authorized $200 million in additional military equipment for Ukraine, as Russia widens its bombardment and pummels civilian areas. Washington already authorized $350 million of military equipment on February 26 — the largest such package in US history. Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky’s pleas for help have grown increasingly desperate, and he has repeatedly urged Washington, the EU and NATO for help.

“I want to be clear though: We’re going to make sure Ukraine has the weapons to defend themselves from invading Russian force. And we will send money and food aid to save Euro-Ukrainian lives," Biden said in Philadelphia.

“We’re going to welcome Ukrainian refugees with open arms if, in fact, they come all the way here. And as we provide — as we provide this support to Ukraine, we’re going to continue to stand together with our allies in Europe and send an unmistakable message that we will defend every inch of NATO territory –- every single inch — with a united, galvanized NATO. One movement," he said.

“That’s why I’ve moved over 12,000 American forces along the borders with Russia — Latvia, Estonia, Lithuania, Romania, et cetera — because they move once. Granted, if we respond, it is World War Three, but we have a sacred obligation on NATO territory — a sacred obligation — Article 5. And we will not — although we will not fight the third World War in Ukraine. Putin’s war against Ukraine is never going to be a victory," the US President said.

Biden said a number of economic moves collectively will deliver “another crushing blow" to Russia’s economy, already weighed down by global sanctions that have cratered the rouble and forced the stock market to close. Biden again put the blame on Russian President Vladimir Putin.