Virat Kohli captained Team India for seven years and during his tenure India won 40 of the 68 test matches. He lost 17 matches and drew 11. His win average is an impressive 58.82%. 

Out of these, the maximum victories for the country came from abroad. He surpassed MS Dhoni as India's successful skipper in 2019.

While Dhoni captained India in 60 matches and recorded a win percentage of 45, Saurav Ganguly’s win percentage was 42.85, having taken India to 21 wins off the 49 matches he captained. Mohammad Azharuddin and Sunil Gavaskar - both of whom captained India in 47 matches each - had win percentages of 29.78 and 19.14 respectively.

Kohli’s aggressive leadership saw India becoming the number one ranked side in Tests. He is the third most successful captain in the history of Test cricket after Australia's Steve Waugh and Ricky Ponting. 

He is sixth on the list of captains having led their side in maximum matches. Graeme Smith, Allan Border, Stephen Fleming, Ricky Ponting and Clive Lloyd are those five who have made more appearances for their side as the Test captain than Kohli. 

Among captains who have led their sides in at least 50 Tests, there are only seven cricketers who have a win percentage of above 50. Apart from Kohli, the others are Graeme Smith, Ricky Ponting, Steve Waugh, Hansie Cronje, Michael Vaughan, Sir Viv Richards, and Mark Taylor.

As a Test captain, Kohli scored 20 centuries, which is the second-most after South Africa’s Graeme Smith (28). He also scored seven double centuries, which is the most among all captains. His 5864 Test runs as the captain is the fourth highest for any player in the world. 

He also led India to 24 home wins in Tests, which is the third most after Ricky Ponting (29) and Graeme Smith (30).

When India lifted the Border-Gavaskar Trophy in 2018-19, Kohli became the first Asian captain to record a series win in Australia. That was followed by the impressive victories in England, where India lead the series 2-1.

Statistics indicate that he was by far the best Indian captain and there is no argument over that.