My life had changes to a luxurious one for few hours when I was Traveling by the newest Rajdhani- Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Terminus to Hazrat Nizamuddin on 25th Jan 2020. One word can define the experience- Awesome.

Though the flight ticket for the date I was travelling was almost 50% of the cost of 1st Class, since we as whole family were travelling together after longtime for a short vacation, we thought of going by Rajdhani First Class. 

Since it was a new train, the rake was also pretty new- Manufactured in Feb-March 2019, so it was still clean and new and had a shine. The coaches were beautifully lit, and decorated.

The berths are much wider than 2AC and ample space to move around in the cabin/ coupe. The co-passenger was good so had a good comfortable journey.
The train passes through some of the most beautiful Ghats- The Kasara Igatpuri Ghat. With large windows, the view was just unimaginable- and the curves allowed us to see the engines at both ends of the train.
Leaving CSMT, very courteous attendants arrive with snacks and tea. They set up the tables for all passengers and provide hot snacks and serve freshly made tea. The snacks are the same except here we got chocolates also, which they don't provide in other classes now.
The bathrooms are clean, with an auto disposable toilet seat cover. The coach also has a shower
Night they took orders for food, the food was freshly made in the pantry and was served by waiters, and not provided in pre packed boxes. The rotis were served hot, as was rice and daal.
The cabins are cleaned immediately after dinner to remove the food smell. And the beds are made by an attendant for all passengers.
The bedding was soft and clean- the blankets had a neat clean cover, which made them really cosy, one of the best parts of 1st class.
The attendants pamper the passengers a lot, so even the passengers don’t mind while tipping them.
Overall it's worth travelling at least once by this Rajdhani,instead of flight.
     Thankyou!!