“Cycle for Your Happy, Hearty and Healthy Life” - Cyclothon to mark the World Bicycle Day on June 3

The Chandigarh chapter of BYCS – a global Social enterprise guided by the belief that bicycles transform cities and cities transform the world – in association with the State Bank of India is celebrating the World Bicycle Day with a “Cycle for Your Happy, Hearty and Healthy Life” Ride on June 3, 2022. 

The Cyclothon will start from the Panjab University Rose Garden near the Administrative office, Sector 14, Chandigarh, and the 11km circuit will be from the University Campus to Sukhna Lake and back. 

The reporting time is at 6.00 am and the flag-off will be at 6:30am.   

The registration for the cycle ride is free of cost and the participants will get T-shirts appreciation certificates and refreshments. There will be limited smart bikes stationed at the venue and can be used free of cost, a first-cum-first basis.   

Link for registration https://tinyurl.com/bdhzt2mk

Over 1000 cycling enthusiasts are likely to celebrate World Bicycle Day.

Chandigarh Mayor Sarbjit Kaur along with senior dignitaries from Panjab University, PGIMER, Chander Shekhar Sharma, General Manager, SBI Chandigarh, and Sanjay Kumar, Deputy GM, SBI Panchkula, will grace the occasion.   

“World Bicycle Day draws attention to the benefits of using the bicycle — a simple, affordable, clean, and environmentally fit sustainable means of transportation. The event is held under ‘India Cycles4Change Challenge,” says Dr Rakesh Mohindra, bicycle mayor of Chandigarh Chapter of BYCS. 

The theme of the Cyclothon is ‘Cycle for Your Happy, Hearty and Healthy Life’. People from all walks of life will promote good health and wellness through bicycling. 

“Cycling is a sustainable transport system that promotes economic growth, reduces inequalities while bolstering the fight against climate change is critical to achieving the sustainable development goals and developing a culture of cycling in society. Over the years, the cycling culture is improving in Chandigarh and our ultimate aim is to see every citizen of the city beautiful contributing towards our theme - Cycle for Your Happy, Hearty and Healthy Life,” says Mohindra, who is an avid cyclist and is working in popularizing cycling as a popular mode of transport in the city.