Waste management is not only concerned with the management of existing waste but to also reduce what becomes waste.
 
We can save the climate through three simple steps:
 1. Mindful purchasing:
 Buy goods and services that are of utmost requirements
Buy in bulk than buying the same material in small and different packaging
But products that are durable and have longevity
Check for the supply chain if the product you are buying is sustainable or not
Weigh your purchasing options wisely – product quality, delivery distance, durability, recyclability, etc.
Avoid single-use plastic in all ways possible.
 
2. Using the product to the best of its utility
Reuse the product whenever and however possible and make sure it reduces the purchases you will make next
Handle the goods with care so that they lost longer
Share the products that are no longer needed by you but are in a good state and can be used (except medicines)
Purchase second-hand products when possible—they are affordable and lessen the burden of production and delivery.
 
3. Dispose waste responsibly
Not everything discarded is a waste—think before disposing
Not everything can be disposed of together—practice waste segregation
Electronic items are highly recyclable and shouldn’t be disposed of with the regular trash. Their degradation emits harmful gases. Moreover, they are more prone to fire and damage.
Irresponsibly disposed of plastic adds to the burden of microplastic, which is known to pollute oceans and soil, thus, affecting the entire food chain.
It can be argued that recycling solves the problem of waste management by putting existing waste to use, but it has its own setbacks, the process of recycling requires energy. Most likely, the quality gets compromised when it is recycled once or twice.
 
Climate change is not an isolated issue that can be solved with area-specific measures. It is a broader challenge and requires complete participation of the citizens in combatting it. A few simple steps taken by each one of us is capable of changing the industrial practices, limiting exploitation of natural resources, reducing waste and bringing stability in the environment.