Delhi, Madhya Pradesh won their respective league matches in the ongoing Sardar Patel National Divyang Svayam T20 Cricket Cup held at Talkatora Cricket Ground, Delhi, on Thursday.

After getting the better of Uttar Pradesh in today’s match, Delhi registered its second straight win and made it to the final.

The other finalist will be decided after a league match between Himachal and Chandigarh to be played tomorrow morning.

The final will be played tomorrow evening.

The tournament is organized by the Differently Abled Cricket Council of India (DCCI) and supported by the Department of Empowerment of Persons with Disabilities (Divyangjan), union ministry of social justice and empowerment. 

On the first league match of the second day, Delhi defeated Uttar Pradesh by five wickets.

Batting first, Uttar Pradesh scored 165 runs for the loss of seven wickets in 20 overs. Pankaj Dilli was the highest scorer for the side. He scored 26 runs with a help of a six and four boundaries in 16 balls. Adesh Pandey (20) and Yogesh (25) were the other main contributors for the Uttar Pradesh side. 

For Delhi, Mo Sadik scalped two wickets for 30 runs, while Mehtab Ali and Rovesh Nayar took a wicket each. 

In reply, Delhi surpassed the target with a loss of five wickets and with six balls to spare. Mehtab Ali scored spectacular 62 runs in 47 balls. Sachin Bhati scored 46 runs in 39 balls. 

For Uttar Pradesh, Vishal Yadav was the most successful bowler. He took two wickets for 32 runs.

In the second league match of the day, Madhya Pradesh defeated Himachal Pradesh by 62 runs.

Batting first, Madhya Pradesh scored 191 runs for the loss of nine wickets in 20 overs. 

Yogendra Bhadoria (55), Sachin Sisodiya (33) were the top contributors to the Madhya Pradesh team. 

In reply, Himachal Pradesh was all out for 129 runs in 19.5 overs.

The DCCI is an umbrella body to promote cricket among the differently abled – physically challenged, deaf, blind and wheelchair – players in the country. The unified body for the differently abled cricketers is recognized by the BCCI (Board of Control for Cricket in India).