By Sanjay Kapoor

On April 10, barely a month after the results of the five assembly elections, including the crucial state of Uttar Pradesh, had been declared, bulldozers moved in at a locality in Khargone in Madhya Pradesh, to brazenly demolish the houses of those belonging to the minority community that had allegedly taken part in the riots that followed a Ramnavami procession.

The use of bulldozers in MP and other states when the identity of perpetrators in violence had not even been settled was unusual, to say the least. Displaying disregard for basic principles of a law based society – which believes that no one is guilty till proven otherwise – these bulldozers were soon seen unleashing destruction in other cities too – demolishing houses and attacking places of religious worship. Even Delhi was not spared.

In Jehangirpuri, a settlement that is preponderantly Muslim, the civic authorities supported by some 400 cops bizarrely chose to punish those who resisted an unauthorised procession of a sword-wielding, raucous group of religious militants. Why are bulldozers so fashionable in democracies even when their conduct is illiberal, exclusionary and symbolises majoritarian dominance?

Visibly, the use of bulldozers draws its inspiration from how Israel uses it to first scare and then suppress Palestinians by demolishing their homes and consequently erasing their memories of stability, tranquillity and togetherness that was implicit in their past. Violence is heaped on them so regularly that the Palestinians forget the circumstances of Naqba – when 63 years ago, they became refugees in their own country.

Bulldozers have been used many times since the Israel armed forces attacked the Palestinian refugee settlement of Jenin in 2002 – a few months after the Godhra riots took place in Gujarat. The manner in which Israeli defence forces quelled the uprising of the Palestinians in Jenin triggered off a global outrage, with reports claiming hundreds of deaths in buildings devastated by bulldozers and army operations.

Read the full story here:- https://theprobe.in/what-will-bulldozer-do-to-our-politics/