If there is any manager who can challenge the status quo of managers like Pep Guardiola, and Jurgen Klopp, it is only Antonio Conte. Antonio Conte joined Tottenham Hotspur in 2021/22season but it is this season when we can see the real flair of the former Chelsea manager. After getting the signings from the stingy Daniel Levy, the owner of Tottenham Hotspur, they have kicked the season on a great note.
In the ongoing season, they remain one of the two sides that have remained unbeaten. They came close to losing the game against Chelsea at Stamford Bridge but the late equalizer saved the match. With all the players hitting the right note in the 2022/23 campaign, the question that appears is, can Tottenham Hotspur mount the challenge for the title?
In this article, we shall look at strengths, weaknesses, opportunities, and threats for Tottenham Hotspur ahead of the 2022/23 season:
Strengths:
Tottenham Hotspur’s strength lies in their manager and forwards. Antonio Conte is a serial winner and has always challenged the status quo of other managers in the league. His challenging attitude is a strength that the club can utilize to get the best.
Tottenham Hotspur has some of the most exciting forwards in the league. They have HarryKane, Heung Min Son, Dejan Kulusevski, and Richarlison who have caused trouble for the opposition with their skills. They have already scored 18 goals in the league and are only second to Manchester City. Heung Min Son recovered from a bad form with a second-half hattrick over Leicester City in the recent game week of the English Premier League. An exciting season is ahead for THFC.
Weakness:
There is no evident weakness in the Tottenham Hotspur line at the moment. Though the forwards are scoring the goals for fun, the defense has leaked goals frequently in recent games. They have conceded seven goals and the pattern is quite worrisome. If Antonio Conte is looking forward to the Premier League challenge, he needs to address the crucial concern of defense.