Israel’s Prime Minister Naftali Bennett met Bahrain's King Hamad bin Isa Al Khalifa and Crown Prince Salman bin Hamad Al Khalifa, who is also prime minister, on Tuesday, in the course of his historic trip to the tiny country in the Persian Gulf—the first by an Israeli premier.

This is Bennett’s second such trip to a Gulf Arab country since the launch of landmark Abraham Accords, a joint statement normalizing relations between Israel and four Arab countries: Bahrain, the United Arab Emirates, Morocco and Sudan in 2020. The initiative was backed by the US to bring together Israel and Arab countries who had sharp difference due to the ongoing Israeli-Palestinian conflict.  

Bennett’s visit at Manama, Bahrain’s capital, helped cement commercial ties between the two nations and launch a defense co-operation. Earlier this month Israel’s defence minister had visited Manama to sign the defence agreement.  

In December, Bennett visited the UAE to meet the de-facto head, Crown Prince Sheikh Mohammed bin Zayed. The two countries had agreed trade deals, including agreements on defence and arms development. Israel is planning to sell its Iron Dome missile defence system to the UAE after Iran-backed Houthi rebels of Yemen launched three missile attacks on the country.  

Looming threat from nuclear-armed Iran is changing all equations in the Middle East.  Even Saudi Arabia, the most powerful Arab nation, is softening its hard line against Israel, after the Houthis attacked them.

Bahrain is a small but strategically important country which has close ties with Saudi Arabia. In the near future, Saudi Arabia could also normalise diplomatic relations with Israel.

The Israeli PM’s visit happened when Iran and Western nations are expected to reach a deal over Tehran’s nuclear program, in exchange for relief from sanctions. Israel opposes the deal because it feels the deal won’t be effective in curbing the nuclear threat and Iran’s support of Israel’s antagonists in Syria, Yemen, Lebanon and Gaza.


READ MORE: https://www.nytimes.com/2022/02/15/world/middleeast/israel-bahrain-naftali-bennett.html

https://www.france24.com/en/video/20220215-israeli-prime-minister-lands-in-bahrain-in-first-visit

https://www.thenationalnews.com/gulf-news/bahrain/2022/02/15/israel-pm-naftali-bennett-to-meet-bahrain-king-on-landmark-visit/