According to AS, Real Madrid hopes to open the new Santiago Bernabéu in December, with the official unveiling scheduled for Wednesday, December 14, 2022, to coincide with the stadium's 75th birthday.

However, this date has a disadvantage in that the final of the 2022 World Cup will be played four days later, on December 18, in Qatar, and some Madrid players may be involved. As a result, the club is considering holding an institutional event on 14 December, followed by a match to inaugurate the new stadium after the World Cup concludes.

The famous stadium was officially opened on December 14, 1947, with a friendly between Los Blancos and the Portuguese side Os Belenenses.

In terms of finances, the club anticipates that the new stadium will generate between 150 and 200 million euros per season.

According to an official announcement on the club's website, the work will take 39 months to complete. As a result, an estimated completion date of August 2022 has been set, with an additional four months required to complete the stadium's exterior development.

The addition of a retractable roof to the Bernabeu will be one of the more significant changes, while the entire stadium will be wrapped in a stainless-steel cover.

"The remodelling works will happen alongside the normal sporting calendar and the stadium's usual activities: Tour Bernabéu, official club store, restaurants, etc," the statement assured supporters.

"The awarding of the estadio Santiago Bernabéu Remodelling contract, along with the finalisation of the financing agreed on 12th April, means that work on the project to start immediately."

"A new stadium that will allow us to continue growing and that will be financed with the new revenues that the reform will generate," club president Florentino Perez previously said of the proposals.

"The new Santiago Bernabéu stadium will entail an important improvement for the club, but also for its surroundings. And it will allow Real Madrid to remain competitive in an increasingly difficult international football scenario."