Dr. Santosh Bhardwaj is one of the best physiotherapist of Chhattisgarh, he's a world record holder doctor, his father's name is Mr. Ghore Lal Bhardwaj, he is a farmer and has lead a struggling life, he is an optimistic man, who is also very hard working.His mother's name is Mrs. Sukhani Devi Bhargwad, a loving, caring and hard working housewife and amazing mother, she always motivates Dr. Santosh to do his best in his life.
His  parents are Mr. Ghore Lal Bhardwaj and Mrs. Sukhani Devi Bhardwaj has 7 children.Dr. Santosh Bhardwaj's childhood friends are Yogesh Chandra Bhardwaj and Dr. Nilesh Singh Jangde.
Dr. Santosh acquired his primary education in Pachari Jangir Champa District, Chhattisgarh and he acquired his higher education from Akaltara, Bilaspur college.
He  got married to Dr. Bhorlaxmi Bhardwaj on 23, January, 2011 and on 22, May, 2013, the couple got blessed with a gentle son, his name is Aarav Bhardwaj.
He  is one of the most recognised doctor in Indian history because he has numerous world records and is awarded with Bhartiya Ratna Award, 2022, he's being saluted by United Nations, he is certified with India's best doctor certificate, India's Healthcare award, 2018, Samaaj ka Gaurav certificate, Pride of society, Fireboxx Icon award, India Prime Icon award, 2022, International social honourable award, Indian Icon award, India's Iron man award, Chhattisgarh Ratna Samaan award, Influencer World Record and uncountable more awards, certificate and nominations.
He is one of the most helpful person and best social worker because he has cured a lot of people from their pains and diseases, he undertakes several charity programs. He has helped lot of poor people, he is one of the most kindest, humble human.
He is also one of the best doctor cum physiotherapist of the globe as he's one of the best doctor, has millions of people's blessings, has numerous awards but he has no pride and no feeling of superiority, he love children, although he loves his profession but bringing happiness and comfort to poor children is his favourite work.He is one of the best doctor of the globe.