Christopher Nolan's "Inception" has become recognised as the start of an artistic epoch in film in the past ten years, with its opulent horn-filled compositions and surreal practical effects. "Inception" bridges the gap between commercial blockbusters and art-house culture by exploring the malleability of time, the detachment of reality, and the depravity of humanity.

The premise of "Inception" is that dreams can be created, modified, and shared. This idea appeals to professional "extractors," who use dreams as a means of stealing or introducing ideas into the minds of their targets.A wealthy client's pledge to expunge "extractor Dominic "Dom" Cobb's criminal record and reconnect him with his children prompts Leonardo DiCaprio to put together an elite team of six to invade Robert Fischer's (Cillian Murphy) mind. The brilliant cast of Dom's team includes Mr. Saito, Arthur (Joseph Gordon-Levitt), Ariadne (Ellen Page), Eames (Tom Hardy), and Yusuf (Dileep Rao) (Ken Watanabe). Fischer's subconscious is filled with an amazing three-layered dreamscape created by Dom's team. However, Nolan gently reveals Dom's deeply repressed guilt by exposing a new dimension of his character at each step of this masterfully planned robbery.

Inception's Dom and Mal symbolically serve as figures of the past and future. Dom desires to reunite with his children so deeply that he endangers those closest to him. In Paris, the projections of his own subconscious seize him and prevent him from retaliating against Mal. As the future always leads to death, Mal seeks her own demise and tries to drag Dom along with her.

In "Inception," Dom's projection of Mal is also his rejected future; he pushes all his future wants and goals into the subconscious figure that is Mal. As the film nears an end, Dom embraces Mal along with the forward-looking hope that she represented. He finally recognizes his real life with his children. It's easy to become Dom and let sentimentality overcome you and hang onto yesterday. Yet it's the balance between these two extremes that we must seek.