Varanasi or Benaras which is also known as Kashi is one of the oldest living cities around the globe. Varanasi holds a seat of Vedic religion and philosophy and its a famous centre in the commercial and industrial for muslin, silk fabrics, perfumes and sculpture. 

Kashi has been a pilgrimage spot for ages for Hindus. And they believe that one who is blessed to have a death on this land would achieve salvation and freedom from the cycle of birth and rebirth. 

The river Ganges located here is thought to have a power to cleanse one's sins of mortals. 

Some of the most famous temples in Varanasi 

Kashi Vishwanath Temple 

It is said to be one of the holiest Shiva Temple in the city. The deity in this temple is Lord Shiva, who is the Supreme Lord of Universe. And so Kashi is also known as city of Lord Shiva. 

Durga Temple 

As the name suggests the diety of this temple is Goddess Durga who is considered as the idol of strength in Hindu mythology. According to the history there is a very interesting mythological story behind this temple. 

Tulsi Manas Temple 

This temple is dedicated to Lord Rama and it is one of the famous temples of Varanasi. The temple is surrounded with a mesmerising garden which is made up of white marble. The temple holds great historical importance as this is where the great epic of Ramacharitmanas was written by the Hindu poet Saint Tulsidas Ji. 

Tridev Temple 

As the name tells there are three Gods in this temple, they are Salasar Lord Hanuman, Dadi Rani Devi Sati, and Khatu Ji Maharaj. It is believed that with the spiritual atmosphere in the temple it makes a divine connection with God. 

Chinese Temple 

The temple is constructed by a Chinese and it is offered as a devotion to Lord Gautam Buddha. The temple is made of bright red and yellow color by the worshippers. It is believed as a place where Lord Buddha met his five disciples and gave his first sermon after gaining the enlightenment in the deer park. 

Sources - https://www.google.com/amp/s/cityonpedals.com/blog/varanasi-a-city-of-temples/amp 

https://varanasi.nic.in/history/