By Pooja Chaudhuri
On August 24, 2022, a video of a man kidnapping a 4-month-old baby from Mathura railway station went viral on social media. Following this, multiple reports started coming in on people attacking sadhus and unknown persons at many places based on rumors of child theft. Recently Alt News had investigated a video with a false claim that child-lifters in the guise of a sadhu were beaten up by villagers.
A video is now being shared on WhatsApp in which a police officer is speaking on camera, while the narration in the background warns of ‘child-kidnappers on a prowl’. The narrator, who asks people to be aware of gangs of 500 people involved in illegal organ trade, ascribes the ‘warning’ to SP (city) Gorakhpur, Kaustab.
( Link https://vimeo.com/360271829)
The narrator can be heard saying in Hindi, “Do not open doors for any garbage collectors, sadhus, hawkers and beggars. Just make noise and send them away. Do not utter the words “no one is at home right now, come later” even by mistake. Unleash your pet dog if you have one. Do not open the main gate. Take care of yourself and your children. Stay alert and stay safe. Today, there have been reports that 500 people, disguised as beggars, have come from Bargadwa. They take hostage anyone on their way and sell their hearts and kidneys. Around 6-7 people have been caught and they have admitted that 500 people are on a prowl. Forward this message to all your friends and family members. Please stay safe. Gangs of 15-20 people are prowling. They have women and children accompanying them. They also have weapons. They come at midnight when the cries of children are heard. Please do not open your doors and share to maximum groups. This message should be viral in 2-3 days. Your safety is in your hands. Beware. Issued in public interest, Gorakhpur police. This is said by SP (city) Dr Kaustab, while talking to Gorakhpur newspapers.”
Read the full story here:- https://www.altnews.in/gorakhpur-police-warning-against-false-child-lifting-rumours-clipped-and-shared-online/?utm_source=website&utm_medium=social-media&utm_campaign=repost