Critical Triangle continues......

Come independence in August 1947, another fissure opened 
up in Pakistan’s Pashtun region, the North-West Frontier Province. 
The Afghan Government claimed that the Durand Line which 
legitimised the annexation of large parts of Afghanistan in the 
1800s had been signed with the British Government of India and 
not with the independent government of Pakistan. Afghanistan 
promptly reignited its territorial claims and opposed Pakistan’s 
entry into the United Nations demanding that “the natural and legal rights of freedom of the North-West Frontier people and the 
9 free tribes along the borders may also be established.” This was 
compounded by the Afghan government’s demands for a 
Pashtunistan, an independent state comprising most of the 
NWFP. This was perhaps the first and most serious ideological 
challenge the Pakistan government faced, a fact that seems to have 
been forgotten, since in those days Afghanistan was a viable state.

The Afghan government posed a threat to the very idea of 
Pakistan far more potently than India did. If Pakistan had been 
given freedom on the basis of identity, in this case religion, then 
identity (ethnicity) should also extend to sub-nationalities within 
Pakistan. This was critical to Afghanistan’s need for an identity 
separate from Pakistan. A Pan-Islamist role, envisaged by 
Pakistan’s new leaders, and Afghanistan’s overwhelming
10 dependence on Pakistani trade routes for access to the sea, meant 
they could not afford to get gobbled up based on the trans-border 
nature of the Pashtun population. Unlike the Indian threat to 
Pakistan’s nationhood, which was more rhetorical, Afghan 
opposition was real, tangible, undermined Pakistan’s new found 
11 independence, and its ideology. The argument that Pakistan was 
not a successor state to British India again attacked its identity. 
Later, the arguments put forward by Afghanistan against Pakistan 
would prove to be the single biggest ideological negation of the 
claims Pakistan would advance for its Kashmir plans. Afghanistan’s 
claims were, amongst other reasons, based on the fact that these 
lands had been seized from them by the application of duress and so 
their ceding was illegal—a claim that Pakistan would also use to 
12 dispute the instrument of Kashmir’s accession to India.

to be continues.....