Quite simply, because gemstones and Gem Therapy work! For more than two decades I have seen many positive results of wearing Gemstones. I have personally been recommending gemstones for over 20 years now.

Events such as financial windfall, gain of wealth, promotion, gain of children, success in life, victory in elections, harmony in relationships, resolution of property matters etc. that appear as miracles to the individual experiencing them, are some of the blessings of wearing accurate gemstones and harnessing powers of the planets.

Amongst the spectrum of remedial measures described in the Shastras- Sacred texts, Gemstones and Gem therapy gives the fastest and the most tangible benefits in my experience.

This book is also aimed primarily for those who want to know what their accurate auspicious gemstones are and in addition of identifying accurate gemstones they also get information on desirable gem qualities, methods of applying gem therapy and most importantly the most common pitfalls and errors to avoid.

A lot of books speak about the astrology connected with gemstones but do not have adequate information regarding the Gemology part of it. At the same time there are Gemology books that are quite detailed in their study of Gemstones but lack in the astrological aspect. I hope that with this offering, I shall be able to bridge the gap to some extent and give most important aspects of Astrology as well as Gemology which will make the individual’s Gem Therapy complete and rewarding.

In addition to the above facts, till today there is no standardization in Planetary Gem Therapy and many variant practices are abundant that are not necessarily beneficial.

The multitude of varied principles and beliefs gives scope to the not so desired elements to practice and propagate unethical practices with detrimental results. My goal is to share the best and statistically proven principles that shall deliver good results regardless of the condition.

to be continued.......