Association of the Victims of Uphaar Tragedy (AVUT), a registered society, was founded in the wake of the totally avoidable and unnecessary Uphaar Fire tragedy that struck Delhi on June 13th, 1997. The tragedy raised important questions about our social values and our ability as a nation to implement and enforce some of the most basic laws governing the safety and survival of our people. 59 people lost their lives for no fault on their part and over 100 injured.

AVUT has been organizing Seminars, Panel Discussions, Inter School Debates and Blood Donations Camps in order to create an awareness of value for human lives, amongst the Government, administration and also the public at large. AVUT also works towards ensuring enforceability and respect for the most basic laws governing the safety and survival of each and every citizen of India.

In order to meaningfully dispense awareness and fulfil social responsibility, AVUT has undertaken the initiation of all possible steps to avoid such man-made tragedies in the future. AVUT has been working on issues of Fire Safety for the past 22 years. Fire is among of the most major safety risks for educational institutions and public spaces. AVUT’s key aim is to educate children in schools about importance of fire safety. This initiative would equip students with skills and awareness- in the eventuality of fire across contexts: in schools, at home, and even when they visit public spaces like mall, multiplexes etc.

AVUT’s endeavor’s have already ensured that due attention is given to safety norms in public spaces, especially cinema halls & Multiplexes, with owners and Government authorities ensuring strict compliance with fire safety rules. The Hon’ble Supreme Court has issued certain guidelines to ensure the safety of the public visiting cinema halls /Multiplexes.

In pursuant to the directions of the Hon’ble Supreme Court, the Lt. Governor of the National Capital territory of Delhi issued a Notification dated 9th February 2015 to this effect. The Lt. Governor has directed that the Licensing Authority shall act on the recommendations of a Nodal Agency consisting of experts in structural Engineering/building, fire prevention, electrical systems and a representative of District Disaster Management Authority.