The big-budget ‘Brahmastra’ is released.
Let’s take a look at all its gorgeous shooting locations.
As it is made on an estimated budget of a whopping INR 410 crore.

Varanasi, India
Varanasi is in Uttar Pradesh is a hub of all things spiritual and religious. Brahmastra had a 20-day schedule at the historic Ramnagar Fort and Chet Singh Fort near Varanasi. The viral song from the movie, Kesariya, was extensively shot on the ghats and the narrow lanes of the city.

Manali, Himachal Pradesh
The crew of Brahmastra moved to Manali in Himachal Pradesh after completing the shoot in Varanasi. The beauty of one of the most stunning hill stations has been very well captured by the director, as seen in the movie trailer.

Bulgaria
Brahmastra was first shot in Bulgaria in February and March 2018 . A beautiful nation in the Balkans, Bulgaria in Europe is all about sea and mountains. Important parts of the movie have been shot in the beautiful mountains of Bulgaria. There are several modern museums, art galleries, city parks and historic cathedrals which are worth visiting.

Edinburgh, Scotland
A major part of the movie was shot at some incredible locations of Edinburgh. The capital city of Scotland, Edinburgh is no less than a fantasy land, filled with pretty castles, green gardens and ample natural beauty.

London, England
After wrapping up the shooting in Bulgaria, the team moved to England to shoot other prime parts of the movie. The land of kings and queens, London is the capital and largest city of England and the United Kingdom. The city proudly stands on the banks of Thames river and is known for the iconic Big Ben, London Bridge, Westminster Abbey and the London Eye observation wheel.

New York, USA
In late July 2018, the team went to New York to complete the rest of the shooting. Globally recognised for its gleaming skyline, NYC is a vibrant city bursting with diversity and excitement always. Central Park, Statue of Liberty and Times Square and Empire State Building are some of the prime attractions of the city.