Veteran Congress leader AK Antony has announced his retirement from electoral politics and also declared that he will not seek renomination to the Rajya Sabha. 

The Election Commission has announced polls to 13 Rajya Sabha seats in six states on March 31. The vacancies have been created with the retirement of five members from Punjab, three from Kerala, two from Assam and one each from Himachal Pradesh, Tripura and Nagaland. 

The Congress party's strength in the Rajya Sabha is expected to go further down, threatening its status as the main opposition party in the Upper House of Parliament. 

Antony wanted someone young to be nominated to the Rajya Sabha and hence decided to quit the electoral politics. 

But that won't stop him from being named as the head of an inquiry committee to look into the reasons and fix the responsibility for the party's debacle in the assembly elections in five states. 

Antony has been a permanent feature of such panels in the past - be it the party's dismal performance in the 2012 assembly elections in Uttar Pradesh, Punjab, Uttarakhand and Goa or its worst ever electoral drubbing in the 2014 Lok Sabha polls. 

The strategy of pitching the Lok Sabha polls as a battle between secularism and communalism, perceived minority appeasement by the party, strong anti-incumbency against chief ministers and lack of coordination between central and state leaderships were responsible for the Congress’ rout in the the 2104 parliamentary elections, Antony had then said in his report. As expected, the top Congress leadership was absolved of any responsibility for the poll drubbing.

Antony-led panels have invariably exonerated the Gandhi family of any responsibility for the poll drubbing.l

Considered political guru of former Congress President Rahul Gandhi, Antony is also a member of the party's core group and heads the all-important disciplinary action committee. 

However, Sonia had asked Ashok Chavan and not Antony to identify reasons for the defeat in Kerala, Assam, West Bengal and Puducherry last year. 

Congress leaders hope he won't be there this time too so that some concrete steps follow the inquiry panel's recommendations.