2:35 p.m.
According to texts acquired by CNN, Trump's former acting chief of staff Mick Mulvaney texts Meadows urging him tell Trump that he "needs to stop this, now" and offering to assist.

2:38 p.m.
Trump tweets that the rioters should "stay peaceful," but doesn't tell them to leave the Capitol.

2:39 p.m.
Dominic Pezzola, an alleged Proud Boy who has been charged with seditious conspiracy, breaks some of the first Capitol windows, though he pleaded not guilty in the court. More violence takes place.

Around 2:40 p.m.
Oath Keepers, a far-right extremist organisation, enter the Capitol building by manoeuvring between crowds of rioters in a configuration akin to the military.

2:44 p.m.
Ashli Babbitt, a pro-Trump rioter who attempted to burst into the Speaker's Lobby, which is close to the House floor, while legislators were fleeing, was fatally shot by a police officer. The Georgia Republican Representative Barry Loudermilk, who favored overturning Biden's victory in his state, texted Meadows at the same time to say "It's really bad up here on the hill."

Around 2:45 p.m.
Pro-Trump mobs break into Nancy Pelosi's office and invade the Senate floor.

2:53 p.m.
Donald Trump Jr. texts Meadows, "He's got to condem (sic) this shit. Asap. The captiol (sic) police tweet is not enough," according to messages obtained by CNN. Meadows replies, "I am pushing it hard. I agree."

Before 3 p.m.
According to CNN, Trump calls House Minority Leader Kevin McCarthy and begs him to put an end to the riots. However, Trump sides with the mob, telling McCarthy that they appear to care more about the election results than he does.

Around 3:00 p.m.
According to Hutchinson's testimony, White House staffers prepare a statement for Trump to issue that would have denounced the violence and the "illegal" conduct of the protesters. The declaration was never made public.

3:09 p.m.
Former Trump chief of staff Reince Priebus texts Meadows, "TELL THEM TO GO HOME !!!," according to messages obtained by CNN.

Source: https://edition.cnn.com/2022/07/10/politics/jan-6-us-capitol-riot-timeline/index.html