What does the ending of The Prestige really mean? no movie manages that more than the prestige 

A deceptive movie about illusionists and the art of deception itself ‘The Prestige’ which by the way is 10 years old now. The movie is  about magicians that is in itself a magic trick, that's not exactly a huge revelation though the film is quite heavy-handed in laying out the structure of a trick. When the big twists come thick and fast in the final act but then after the magician's cloth is lifted and the movie reveals science fiction that borders on the genuinely supernatural it leaves its audience shocked amazed and little baffled wondering what's real and what's merely crafty misdirection like any good trick so what does the ending of The Prestige really mean.

With what we can see happening in front of us, Lord Caldlow was actually Angier in disguise and reveals this to a jailed borden before he walks off with custody of the man's daughter. Borden is then hanged for the apparent murder by drowning of Angier shortly after Angier revealed his transported man trick using Tesla's machine to create a duplicate of himself with all his memories intact while the man who stepped in the machine each night is drowned. Later in the movie, Borden returns to shoot Angier revealing that the person known as Alfred Borden was actually a pair of identical twins. When one was born the other would disguise himself as his engineering assistant Fallon. The two men took in turns to be Borden one brother loving Borden's wife Sarah the other loving his mistress Olivia. One brother was hanged, the other lived to execute Angier and walked away with his daughter Jess. Christopher Nolan's scale of needless complication is actually fairly easy to follow in flashbacks pile on top of flashbacks despite this the ending has been subject unlike see the film revolves entirely around magic not being real.There's a practicality to each and every trick and then along comes Tesla's cloning machine the effects of which might be real magic for how much it makes physical sense.