A continued summary of testimonies by 58 transgender adults on how critically life-saving access to gender-affirming care is, as documented in an amicus brief in response to an Arkansas law that would ban this healthcare for trans youth in the state:

Filmmaker Lilly Wachowski said: “When I started living as my true self, I would sometimes catch short sharp glimpses of my reflection in windows and cars as I’d walk along or ride my bike. It would make my heart skip a beat. The silhouette of my shadow on the ground cast by the afternoon sun was exhilarating and life affirming. If no one else did, the Sun saw me as I am.”

Triathlete Chris Mosier, reflecting on his first triathlon race post top surgery, said “The feeling of being able to run freely in a body that more closely matched the way I’ve always seen myself was overwhelming.”

Actor Elliot Page described his experience after top surgery, saying “I couldn’t believe the amount of energy I had, ideas, how my imagination flourished, because the constant discomfort and pain around that aspect of my body was gone.”

Medical Director of Mental Health Services at the Central Outreach Wellness Center, Dr. Tamar Carmel said: “I don’t know how to begin to explain the blessing that is gender euphoria, feeling safe and comfortable in my physical body. It’s walking around with my head held high rather than trying to make myself small and invisible. It’s being proud and hopeful for my future.”

Truck Driver Elizabeth Austin O’Daire said: “I’m old enough and far enough from the beginning of my transition that just existing as a transgender person in my day-to- day life is largely uneventful and frankly rather boring. It’s normal. I wake up, I take a couple pills, and I go to work.”

Naomi Clark, Chair of Game Design Game Design Department at Tisch School of the Arts of New York University, said: “To most people I pass or sit near as my daughter and I commute to preschool on the subway, I’m just another mom toting a toddler around along with my work bag.”