We may never get to the bottom of whether Donald Trump flushed documents down a White House toilet. “Fake story,” says the former president. “100% accurate,” retorts a reporter.

But even without having to unclog plumbing in search of missing papers, national archivists have their work cut out trying to plug potential gaps in the historical record of the 45th president.

On Feb. 7, 2022, it emerged that 15 boxes of documents and other items that should have been handed over to the National Archives and Record Administration had been found at Trump’s Mar-a-Lago residence.

Trump says he was told that he was under “no obligation” to hand over the documents, but the law suggests he may be mistaken here.

Specifically, Section 2071 of Title 18 of U.S. Code states that anyone who “willfully and unlawfully conceals, removes, mutilates, obliterates, or destroys” records or documents filed in any public office can be fined or imprisoned for up to three years.

Read more at The Conversation: https://theconversation.com/whether-up-in-smoke-or-down-the-toilet-missing-presidential-records-are-a-serious-concern-176964

Image Credits: https://newsroom.ap.org/detail/Trump/799af1905d254143b9dd7af4482461bf/photo?Query=trump%20boxes&mediaType=photo&sortBy=arrivaldatetime:desc&dateRange=Anytime&totalCount=335¤tItemNo=18

It’s deemed a more serious crime if documents are classified, in which case a penalty of up to five years imprisonment can apply.

In both cases, those held responsible are then disqualified from holding any office in the United States.

These requirements matter not only for posterity and the public record. They can also help build a complete picture of events that have lasting consequences. Among the records reportedly missing from Trump’s tenure in the White House are phone logs from Jan. 6, 2021.

Saving the records

In 1957, the National Historical Publications Commission, a part of the National Archives that works to “preserve, publish, and encourage the use of documentary sources … relating to the history of the United States,” recommended developing a uniform system so all materials from presidencies could be archived.