The Conversation is running a series of dispatches from clinicians and researchers operating on the front lines of the coronavirus pandemic. You can find all of the stories here.

I don a gown, gloves and a mask to enter the hospital room of a new mother who is sick with COVID-19.

She lies in bed, exhausted between coughing spells; her day-old infant rests comfortably across the room. She contracted COVID-19 the week before her due date and was hospitalized when her labor began.

Given the mother’s illness and her inability to care for the newborn, we make plans for the infant to go home with his father on his second day of life. But his mother will need to remain hospitalized to recover from COVID-19 and from her delivery.

The couple’s other two children at home need care as well. The road to recovery will be long for this family, but fortunately the mother’s illness does not end up requiring intensive care or mechanical ventilation. This outcome is not what the family had imagined when they made the decision for her not to get vaccinated against COVID-19 during her pregnancy.

Unfortunately, scenarios like this have become far too common for me and other care providers during the COVID-19 pandemic. During the latest omicron surge, it was not unusual to have four or five patients with active COVID-19 infections on the labor and delivery unit at a time.

Decision-making during pregnancy

Pregnancy is often a time of sweet anticipation. But the ongoing pressure to make the right decisions for the health and well-being of both the pregnant person and the unborn child tempers this excitement. And undoubtedly, the decision-making around COVID-19 vaccination adds another layer of stress. The relative novelty of COVID-19 in our lives, fear of the unknown and abundant misinformation often complicate these decisions. Advice comes during pregnancy from many directions, including well-meaning friends and family, and sometimes even from strangers.

Read full story at The Conversation:https://theconversation.com/why-pregnant-people-should-get-vaccinated-for-covid-19-a-maternal-care-expert-explains-176543

Image Credits: https://www.gettyimages.com/detail/photo/pregnant-woman-taking-a-vaccination-royalty-free-image/1322499124?adppopup=true
Pregnant people are at significantly greater risk from COVID-19 than from the vaccine. Emilija Manevska/Moment via Getty Images