7 Georginio Wijnaldum
Wijnaldum was the best midfielder for Liverpool for many years, scoring the goal that ignited one of the greatest comebacks in football history. He was the best midfielder but was not widely praised for his efforts; an industrious all-rounder who frequently does the unseen work.
Many Liverpool fans remember his famous goal against Barcelona, and the player will always be honoured as red. The Dutchman made 237 appearances and scored 27 goals.
6 James Milner
He is Klopp's most exciting midfielder and remains his most trustable player in the centre of the field. Miler joined from City and made an immediate impact; he was given the captain's armband by Klopp and was a motivated figure who inspired many players.
A gutsy player who would find the player in open spaces and create scoring chances. Milner is still a consistent performer at the club, but he is rarely given playing time due to his age, but when he does, he does not disappoint. He has played 298 games for Merseyside, winning the league and the Champions League.

5 Jordan Henderson
Another legendary captain who led from the front and played a momentous role in leadership. Henderson is a box-to-box midfielder who frequently serves as a holding player and occasionally as a makeshift center-back. During his time at Liverpool, he developed into an athletic and hardworking midfielder, eventually becoming a more complete player. Henderson was an undisputed Anfield player, and his leadership qualities were incredible. He won the 2019-20 FWA Footballer of the Year, and he is still a key player for Klopp. He has 455 starts and has won the Champions League and Premier League.


4 Xabi Alonso
There will be no one like Xabi Alonso in Liverpool history, thanks to his famous goal from a rebound after missing a penalty and tying the score 3-3 in the 2005 Champions League final. He was a hardworking midfielder who could play anywhere in the area. He was effective both creatively and defensively, but his performance was distinguished by his positioning and physical characteristics.
