It was the month of March in 1972. In a time when there were many gangster pictures, another one received excellent reviews when it opened in just six theatres. Francis Ford Coppola's gangster movie quickly became more widely available in theatres and dominated talks. The film was a huge hit and received numerous nominations, including 11 Academy Award nominations. Two gratifying sequels then came out. Fast forward to 50 years later, and the film has become a cult favourite. Paramount Pictures re-released the movie for its 50th anniversary, this time in 156 theatres. And the revenue was more than three times what it was in 1972. The film was "The Godfather."

This year it marks the 50th anniversary of the classic film, and it has found a new audience. Despite being made more than 50 years ago, The Godfather has become popular among younger generations and is still highly relevant today.

The Godfather, starring Marlon Brando as a mob boss who leaves his kids a legacy of violence and power, was unafraid to explore controversial subjects that were rarely handled in movies at the time. The characters experience a range of diverse feelings and circumstances as they pursue their ultimate goal of obtaining absolute control. They also compete with one another in sibling rivalry. Finally, Coppola and Mario Puzo, the author of the novel, incorporated aspects into the script to create a work of art that earned them the Oscar for Best Adapted Screenplay.

Marlon Brando, who won the Academy Award for Best Actor but chose not to receive it, played Vito Corleone, the boss and father of Michael Corleone, played by Al Pacino in the film. Brando was a trim 47-year-old at the time. In a move against the mistreatment of native Americans in Hollywood, Brando sent Native American actor Sacheen Littlefeather to accept his award on the day of the ceremony, which has since become Oscar history.

The film, a critique of patriarchy, family values, brotherhood, immigration status and treatment, politics, power dynamics, the marginalisation of women, criminality, and capitalism, will endure for many years.