New human lung cell type is regenerative
Researchers at the Perelman School of Medicine of the University of Pennsylvania have discovered a novel type of lung cell that may be involved in lung illnesses.

The researchers studied human lung tissue to locate the novel cells, which they call respiratory airway secretory cells (RASCs). The cells line tiny airway branches near the alveoli structures where oxygen and carbon dioxide are exchanged. The researchers discovered that RASCs can replenish other cells required for appropriate alveolar function. In addition, they uncovered evidence that smoking and chronic obstructive lung disease (COPD) can disturb the regenerative capabilities of RASCs, pointing to an alternative treatment for COPD.

"COPD is a terrible and common disease for which we have little understanding of the cellular biology. Finding additional cell types, especially progenitor cells, harmed in COPD could speed up the discovery of new medicines "First author Maria Basil, MD, PhD, is a Pulmonary Medicine teacher.

COPD causes gradual alveolar loss and destruction, aggravated by persistent inflammation. It is believed that it affects 10% of people in some areas of the US and causes 3 million deaths globally each year. Anti-inflammatories and oxygen therapy are frequently administered, but neither can stop or reverse the disease process. Because mice's lungs lack important aspects of human lungs, progress in understanding COPD has been slow.


"Studies like this are helping us understand what is going on in this extremely common condition," said senior author Edward Morrisey, PhD, the Robinette Foundation Professor of Medicine, Cell and Developmental Biology, and director of the Penn-CHOP Lung Biology Institute.
The scientists discovered that RASCs serve as precursors for AT2 cells, renewing them to maintain the AT2 population and keep alveoli healthy. The researchers discovered evidence that RASC deficiencies may be an upstream source of AT2 cell abnormalities in COPD and other lung illnesses. A lot more research is needed, but Morrisey believes the findings point to potential COPD treatments that restore or refill the normal RASC population in damaged lungs.