Veteran Congress leader Ghulam Nabi Azad met party chief Sonia Gandhi and discussed organisational issues and the need for cohesive functioning of the party. 

After the meeting, Azad said there is no leadership issue as the Congress Working Committee (CWC) had unanimously asked Sonia Gandhi to continue as the party chief. "There is no vacancy for the Congress president's post."

The meeting came two days after the G-23 or group of dissidents met at Azad's residence to discuss the poll debacle in five states. 

The dissidents have since August 2020 raised the pitch, seeking reforms in the party, a visible and full-time leadership, organisational elections from top to bottom and formation of a parliamentary board. 

Azad played down the dissidence in the party and insisted that their suggestions centered around fighting unitedly the upcoming elections. 

He said there were no discussions on leadership change, neither was that anybody's demand. "Nobody has said that Mrs Gandhi should quit."

All members of the Congress party decided unanimously that she should continue as the president, we just had some suggestions that were shared, Azad said. 

"Working Committee was asked for suggestions on the reasons for defeat in five states. The discussion was held to fight unitedly in the forthcoming assembly elections... There was no question on leadership," he added.

Azad's meeting with Sonia Gandhi came a day after Rahul Gandhi had reached out to Haryana chief minister Bhupinder Singh Hooda.

The G-23 leaders are also seeking clarity over who is making the decisions in the party and claimed that they would often come to know about the decisions from newspapers.

The dissidents also claim that they have not done any anti-party activities and insisted that their meeting was held after informing Sonia Gandhi.

In a statement, the G-23 in a statement on Wednesday after the meeting said the only way forward for the Congress was to adopt a model of inclusive and collective leadership and decision making at all levels.

Azad said he conveyed their suggestions to Sonia Gandhi in order to strengthen the Congress and how to prepare and fight the upcoming elections.