Diego Maradona's famous "Hand of God" goal against England was scored in this very stadium. Argentinians who saw their nation lift the FIFA World Cup for the first time in their history will remember this stadium in Mexico for their entire life. Pele in 1970 and Maradona in 1986, lifted the World Cup after winning the final matches in this stadium.
3) Estadio Centenario (Montevideo, Uruguay)
The Estadio Centenario stadium in Uruguay holds a very special place in hearts of football fansfrom all around the world since it was the stadium which hosted the first edition of the FIFA World Cup back in 1930. The stadium presently even after almost 90 years of its construction isvery much there in use.
The stadium is listed as one of the most historical stadiums by FIFA. It hosted majority of the matches of the 1930 world cup and the memorable final wherein Uruguay beat Argentina 4-2.
2) Wembley Stadium (London, England)
Regarded as one of the most majestic football stadiums in the history of game, the Wembley stadium in England has provided the fans with several fond memories over the years. Brazilian legend, Pele referred to it as the "Capital and Heart of football".
Built back in the 1920s the stadium has witnessed some of the most historical moments of the FIFA World Cup. When the England team lifted it's first World Cup title back in 1966, theWembley stadium consisted of a crowd of around 1 lakh spectators to cheer the famous win.
1) Stade de France (Saint-Denis, France)
The Stade de France was built especially to host the 1998 FIFA World Cup. The stadium holds a special place in the memories of fans since it hosted several games between top notch sidesin that edition of the tournament.
The stadium was made even more memorable when it hosted the final of the World Cup 1998between Brazil and France. The hosts won the final 3-0 banking on the heroics of Zinedine Zidane and lifted their maiden World Cup trophy by outplaying a legendary Brazil side. The French national side plays several important international matches in the stadium till date.