Cheese, chocolate and cliff diving – an original location from the inaugural World Series season in 2009, Sisikon was on the schedule in 2010 and 2018 again. Historically, the return to Lake Uri marks a rather significant stop of the 2022 World Series: Switzerland plays a leading role in the history of the sport as Red Bull Cliff Diving as such was born in Brontallo (Ticino) in July 1997 with the very first standalone event 25 years ago.

The cliff diving elite returning to Switzerland are in prime shape to celebrate this special milestone: Last weekend’s competition in Mostar, Bosnia and Herzegovina, was one for the books as Romania’s Constantin Popovici broke the records for a single dive as well as the competition score. 

The 30-year-old ‘awesome Aussie’ will step onto the 21m platform mounted on the Uri-Stone with a score to settle: out of the 16 countries that Iffland has competed at since she joined the World Series as a wildcard in 2016, Sisikon is the only one where the record winner has not yet succeeded.

Her main title challenger, Canada’s Molly Carlson, will certainly do her all to maintain that anomalous statistic. 

In the men’s it is Gary Hunt who has a title to defend. The Frenchman won here in 2010 and 2018 and with all three of his main challengers being new to the Swiss stage, he can play the experience card. 2022’s only two-time winner and European High Diving champion Constantin Popovici knows this location from a spectator’s point of view back in 2018, while current World Series leader Catalin Preda as well as Boston-winner Aidan Heslop will touch uncharted territory.

Local hero Matthias Appenzeller, along with 14 divers for who the fresh water of Lake Uri represents new diving grounds, will spice up one of history’s most competitive cliff diving seasons.

Just 382 inhabitants live in the charming village of Sisikon permanently and it will be a flotilla of hundreds of small rubber boats, surfboards and home-made rafts that will multiply this neat number when they come to watch 24 aesthetic athletes plunging into the fresh water at speeds up to 85km/h next weekend.