Two of the most powerful militaries in the world, USA and Russia , these two are currently the sole existing military superpowers. Also the biggest supplier of weapons, American and Russian (formerly Soviet) has dominated the military arsenal of most countries of the world. While both have proven their mettle on the battlefield, which one is better? One can’t trust the news reports of either country because both have a military establishment which brags about the sophistication and efficiency of their respective armed forces’ technological prowess.

Both the countries have vastly different approaches in their designs. American engineering is built on the idea of unified purpose while Russian design is scattered all over the place, though all Russian weapons share the common purpose of acting as counter to American weaponry. The same thing applies to their respective doctrines of war.

The USA has a full on Viking mentality of raiding other people’s lands so it is almost entirely offensive, after all, given USA’s location, who is going to invade them? Russia on the other hand possesses a more defensive doctrine, not invading until they view it as paramount. The Russian terrain allows the Russian Armed Forces to fight effectively in their own background and they are constantly upgrading their capabilities to ensure that the West does not once get the bright idea of invading.

The best example is the difference between AK-47 and M-16. Both are great guns, but AK is the king of assault rifles. Its hardiness, cheapness and reliability make it a better gun than M-16 which despite being more expensive has thrice the malfunctions. Russia is miles ahead of the US in missile technology. The S-400 which is hailed as the world’s greatest surface to air missile system can handle up to 80 different targets at ranges of up to 250 miles. The only comparable system in the world is America’s AEGIS which is used in US Navy. There is simply no land-based system capable of matching the S-400 currently. Russian military engineering has a more unpredictable style to it, while American engineering is over-specced, over-engineered and expensive to maintain.