Eintracht Frankfurt and Sporting will be locking horns against each other in their opening match of the UEFA Champions League 2022-23; Both these teams have been drawn into Group D this season and the game will be taking place at Deutsche Bank Park. 
Eintracht Frankfurt, Tottenham, Sporting and Marseille are the 4 clubs that have been drawn in Group D of the UCL campaign this season. Both these teams will be playing against each other for the first time in a European competition.
Prior to this, Frankfurt have faced 3 Portuguese clubs in European competitions having won, drawn, and lost a couple of games each. Sporting, on the other hand, does not have a good record against German clubs as they have lost 13 of the last 14 games against any German club in European competitions.
Eintracht Frankfurt vs Sporting Match Details
Match: Eintracht Frankfurt vs Sporting
Date and Time: 07th September, 05:45 pm UK, 06:45 pm Local, 10:15 pm IST
Venue: Deutsche Bank Park
Eintracht Frankfurt vs Sporting Probable Playing XI
Eintracht Frankfurt: Kevin Trapp; Ansgar Knauff, Tuta, Evan Ndicka, Luca Pellegrini; Kristijan Jakic, Djibril Sow; Jesper Lindstrom, Mario Gotze, Daichi Kamada; Randal Kolo Muani
Sporting: Antonio Adan; Jeremiah St.Juste, Sebastian Coates, Matheus Reis; Pedro Porro, Manuel Ugarte, Hidemasa Morita, Nuno Santos; Franciso Trincao, Marcu Edwards, Pedro Goncaalves
Eintracht Frankfurt vs Sporting Probable Winners
Both Frankfurt and Sporting have won their last games in the league. Although Sporting has the strength to cause some damage, Frankfurt will prevail in this game because of the Home advantage. The game can also end in a draw.
Prediction: Eintracht Frankfurt 1-1 Sporting
Eintracht Frankfurt vs Sporting Live Stream
Eintracht Frankfurt vs Sporting will be live-streamed on SonyLIV. Indian fans can also stream the match live on Jio TV. In Germany , The match will be televised on DAZN. Prime Video subscribers will be able to watch the match online via the website or app. In Portugal, TVI will broadcast the games while Eleven Sports will live stream. 