As to how long the dynasty of Toramana lasted is not known, and there is a silence till the next landmark in AD 607, when we learn of the reign of Harsha Vardhana of Kannauj from 607 to 650 AD, who had subjected the whole country between the Yamuna and the Narmada, and thus must also have subjugated Narwar. There was turbulence after the death of Harsha, and thus Narwar may also have been independent. 

The period of the latter half of the seventh century to the beginning of the eighth century saw the rise of the Rajput families like the Tomaras of Delhi, Chandellas of Khajuraho and Sisodias of Chittor. It is thus presumed that the Kacchwahas of Gwalior and Narwar may have also become independent around the same time. It seems that Bhavabhuti may have lived in Narwar during the reign of Yasovarma of Kannauj from AD 720 to 750, till when Narwar was still under Kannauj.  About this period a new dynasty arose in Kannauj under Deva-Shakti, whose fourth ascendant Bhoja Deva, was the King of Gwalior in AD 876 and of Thanesar in AD 882. It may thus be presumed that Narwar also formed part of the dominions of Bhoja Deva.

Narwar under the Kacchwahas 

Shortly after the middle of the tenth century the Kacchwahas of Narwar and Gwalior became independent under Vajra Dama, one of whose inscriptions is dated in 977 AD. His great grandson Bhuvana-Pala must have been reigning as an independent chief in AD 1021, when Mahmud of Ghazni, on his march against Kalinjar, accepted the submission of the King of Gwalior. The Kacchwahas continued to rule till 1129, when the last king of the race named Teg-Pal or Tej-Karn, lost his sovereignity through his love for the fair Maroni, whose beauty still affords a theme of the skills of the bards. The Kacchwahas of Gwalior, Narwar and Jaypur all agree in the same story of the love blind Dulha Ray, who was supplanted by his cousin the Parihar Chief, named Paramal Dyo or Paramarddi Deva. Connected with this period is the Narwar inscription dated in AD 1120, translated by Prof. Hall.

To be continued.......