Karim Benzema delivers for Real Madrid once again! 

The stand-in captain for Real Madrid was the match of the match for the Spanish giants once again. The Frenchman found the back of the net in the 21st minute as he scored a terrific header to beat Eduardo Mendy from 12 yards. Lighting struck twice minutes later as Karim Benzema would score another header off of Luka Modric's cross in the 24th minute. 


But Karim Benzema was not done there! Eduardo Mendy made a huge mistake seconds after the kickoff in the second half and the Real Madrid Captain was there to make the Chelsea goalkeeper pay. Hence completing his Champions League hattrick in just 25 minutes.


Kai Havertz gives Chelsea hope! 


Real Madrid dominated most of the first half at Stamford Bridge. Chelsea were being outplayed at their own stadium and there didn't look a way back for the Blues. But Kai Havertz stepped up for Chelsea once again! 


The German scored a brave header past Thibaut Courtois to give Chelsea hope by making the scoreline 2-1 at that time. Havertz would have to play a big part in the second leg if the Blues are to go through to the Semifinals


End of the road for Chelsea in the UEFA Champions League?

Up until last season, Chelsea would have been at a major disadvantage. Having conceded three goals at Stamford Bridge, the Blues would have had to overcome the "away goals". 


But the away goal rule has been scrapped from the UEFA Champions League in the 2021/22 season. Hence the Blues do have hope against Real Madrid! 


Real Madrid finally get a win against Thomas Tuchel!


Los Blancos had failed to beat Thomas Tuchel's side on six previous occasions in the UEFA Champions League. The German manager's Borussia Dortmund, Paris Saint-Germain, and even Chelsea had gotten the better of Real Madrid. 


But that streak is thankfully behind Real Madrid now. Los Blancos have gotten renewed hope after the 4-0 thrashing at the hands of Barcelona. Hence they would surely be the favourites at home in the second leg. 