Cervical cancer is one of the most common gynecologic cancers among women in developing countries. Cervix is the lower part of the uterus that connects the uterus with the vagina. Over 85 per cent of the deaths due to cervical cancer have been witnessed in developing, low and middle income countries. In India over 1.2 lakh women are diagnosed with this disease every year and the mortality rate is over 50 per cent. Cervical cancer is the second most common cancer in Indian women in the age range of 15 to 44 years.


Cervical cancers are often related to an underlying infection with the human papilloma virus (HPV), which is usually sexually transmitted. HPV can cause pre-cancerous changes in the cervical cells that ultimately lead to the development of cervical cancer. HPV vaccine if given in young age plays an important role in protection against HPV infection and prevention of cervical cancer. While cervical cancer can be a slowly developing disease, if not detected early, it may spread to other parts of the body like abdomen, liver, bladder, or lungs. Dr Shivali Ahlawat – Lab Director, Oncquest Laboratories Ltd gives inputs about Cervical cancer, early signs and symptoms, diagnosis and how can it be taken care of.


Signs and Symptoms

The disease mostly remains undetected without any symptoms in the early stage and the primary signs might take years to develop. Some of the common signs and symptoms of stage 1 cervical cancer are :

1 Post coital bleeding i.e. Vaginal bleeding after intercourse
2 Irregular or breakthrough bleeding between periods or post menopausal bleed
3 Foul-smelling vaginal discharge or pain during intercourse
4 Painful urination
5 Diarrhea
6 Bleeding from the rectum
7 Fatigue
8 Weight loss
9 Loss of appetite
10 Pelvic or abdominal pain

Diagnosis

Gynecological screening with the pap test is generally effective in detecting most cases of cervical cancers by examining signs of pre-cancer and irregularities. Other tests like HPV molecular testing are performed to specifically check the cervical cells for HPV virus. 


Sources - https://www.india.com/health/cervical-cancer-symptoms-of-cervical-cancer-10-warning-signs-that-women-should-watch-out-for-54944