Doctors, nurses and other healthcare workers are the worst sufferers of spiralling inflation in Turkey.  Thousands of such workers, demanding better pay and improved working conditions went on a one-day strike on Tuesday in the country.
  
Doctors and nurses—who didn’t join the strike—staged protests in Ankara and Istanbul, two big cities of Turkey, asking for respectable wages as now they earn salaries close to the level of national minimum wage.  Their demands included shorter shifts of work and protection from increased verbal and physical assaults from patients and their relatives.

Ever since President Recep Tayyip Erdogan started expanding universal health care, supposedly his most significant achievement, healthcare workers' lives started deteriorating. Increasing workload with diminishing pay packets along with loss of respect have led to the exodus of doctors to foreign countries, especially Germany. The situation turned worse in the pandemic years when pressure of work increased with galloping inflation, further impoverishing the medical profession.
  
In January inflation in Turkey surged to 49%, highest in the past 20 years, eating people’s purchasing power and eroding their life’s savings.  

According to the Turkish Medical Association, over 1400 doctors left to work abroad last year and 4,000 in the last 10 years. Many more have lined up to leave the country forever.  The opposition Good Party claims the numbers are higher and the brain drain could ruin Erdogan’s much-touted healthcare system.  

The universal healthcare system eased patient access to all hospitals ruining the referral system. This increased workload on hospitals which now focus on quantity rather than quality of healthcare.  

More than their deteriorating pay packages and living standards, healthcare workers are more worried about their hostile working environment caused by patient discontent that increased manifold amid Covid-19 spikes.
  
READ MORE:

 https://www.nytimes.com/2022/02/07/world/asia/turkey-inflation-doctors.html

https://abcnews.go.com/Health/wireStory/turkish-health-workers-strike-pay-conditions-82743543

https://www.reuters.com/markets/commodities/voices-discontent-spread-turkey-energy-prices-surge-2022-02-08/