Near the end of the third quarter, Steph Curry drained a 27-foot three-pointer to put the Golden State Warriors ahead of the Boston Celtics for the first time since the opening minute.

It was also the last time that the Warriors led as they were overpowered 116-100 by the Celtics who took a 2-1 lead in the NBA Finals best-of-seven series.

A bad night became worse for Golden State when Curry dove to the floor in a tussle for a loose ball with Boston's Al Horford who rolled onto Curry's foot with four minutes left in the game.

Despite writhing in pain on the floor, the Warriors talisman continued to play before leaving the court two minutes later.

"We need him if we want to win this thing," Curry's fellow Splash Brother Klay Thompson said. "I know Steph is going to do everything he can in his power to play. I am really hoping he's OK because he's our identity, and without him, it will be very difficult."

Curry proved himself to be the only Warriors' player capable of challenging the Celtics' powerful defense which displayed its superiority late on, holding Golden State to 11 points in the fourth quarter.

He was the top scorer on Wednesday with 31 points and Golden State will be desperately hoping that he recovers in time for Game 4.

"Obviously, in some pain, but I'll be alright," Curry told reporters after the game. "See how I feel tomorrow and get ready for Friday.

"I don't feel like I'll miss a game. I'll take advantage of these next 48 hours to get ready."

Boston raced to an early lead helped by two three-pointers by Jaylen Brown -- who led the Celtics with 27 points, nine rebounds and five assists -- in the first quarter. Boston's advantage widened to as much as 15 points and the Celtics took a 33-22 lead into the second quarter.

The Warriors shot just 8-of-23 in the first while their scrambling defense conceded multiple fouls including three called on Curry in the first half.

Read more
https://edition.cnn.com/2022/06/09/sport/warriors-celtics-steph-curry-nba-finals-spt-intl/index.html