Juventus custodian Wojciech Szczesny was supposed to be in the news after the Serie A tie against Empoli. He did find himself in the midst of media glare, but for a different reason altogether. It was a big day for the Polish goalkeeper as he made his 200th Serie A appearance. His performance had been impressive like in most of the other matches this season, but his utterances drew more attention. The former Arsenal goalkeeper, whose wife is Ukrainian, has called upon football associations FIFA and UEFA to take action against Russia after they invaded Ukraine. Taking to Instagram, Szczesny said, “My wife was born in Ukraine, there is Ukrainian blood running through the veins of my son, part of our family is still in Ukraine, a lot of my workers are Ukrainian and they’re all great people. Seeing the suffering on their faces and fear for their country makes me realise I can’t stand still and pretend that nothing has happened.”
The Poland goalkeeper has only echoed what his star forward Robert Lewandowski said on this issue. They are simply not ready to play the Russians. From the humanitarian point of view, both are making right noises and in line with their federation, which has refused to play Russia. But things are certainly not going to be easy. The Russians, too, will make every effort to turn the situation in their favour. An influential football official of Russia, Vyacheslav Kolokskov, who is also an honorary member of UEFA, has already accused the Polish Football Association of blackmail over its refusal to play Russia in the World Cup qualifier. An experienced man and a former FIFA vice president, Kolokskov has also predicted the match could be played on a neutral venue. “Most likely, it will be some kind of neutral field, if the Polish team does not come there, they will receive a technical defeat,” he said. If this happens, then it is not going to be easy for Poland. Will Szczesny and Lewandowski stick to their stand of not playing and risk forfeiting a World Cup berth? It will be interesting to watch.