By Aurangzeb Naqshbandi
As many as eight Congress legislators in Goa defected to the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on Wednesday, over seven months after they had taken oaths at religious places to stay loyal to the grand old party.
The fact that such loyalty pledges mean nothing for the lawmakers was evident from a highly insensitive remark by former chief minister Digambar Kamat.
He said God had actually granted them the permission to join the BJP.
"I believe in God and it is true that before the election, we had taken an oath not to leave the Congress. I went to the temple again and asked God if I could join the BJP. God agreed and told me to do whatever is best for you," Kamat told reporters.
It was on February 4 this year that Congress leader Rahul Gandhi led a loyalty pledge of 37 election candidates of his party and three of the Goa Forward Party (GFP).
This was just ahead of the assembly elections in Goa on February 14. The candidates swore loyalty to their respective parties and pledged not to defect after being elected to the assembly.
Prior to that, the Congress candidates had been administered oaths at a temple, a church and a shrine on January 22.
While the first vow was taken with God as a witness, the pledge of loyalty was on an affidavit in which they said that if elected to the legislative assembly from the Congress party in 2022, they will complete their five-year term as legislators of the Congress party according to the rules laid out in the Indian Constitution, pledge loyalty to the Congress party and serve the people honestly, absolutely not defect to another party, not resign as a legislator and join another party, and will not contest election from any other party.
That was over seven months ago. On September 14, eight of the 11 Congress legislators defected to the ruling BJP.
Read more: https://www.newsdrum.in/analysis/goa-a-stringent-anti-defection-law-and-not-oaths-at-religious-places-is-required-to-stop-desertions-of-lawmakers-89671.html