By Shekhar Iyer

New Delhi: Action by law enforcement agencies on controversial political actors --whether it is Partha Chatterjee in West Bengal, Sanjay Raut in Maharashtra or Satyendra Jain in Delhi--has left their mentors in indefensible positions. And their politics appears more shakily than hitherto.

Even the Sonia Gandhi family's "tryst" with the ED in the National Herald case is not exactly boosting the Congress' prospects morally or electorally when it comes to challenges ahead. The party's rank and file still remain confused and wonder why their top leaders had to get entangled because of their act of changing ownership of an Independence-era journal, which has come to be known for commercial properties under its banner than its editorial.

The Gandhis have forced Congress to brazen it out as they dodge the ED's questions. Uddhav Thackeray and Sharad Pawar believe their voters will be convinced (as they are) that their woes are not due to any wrong-doing but because Prime Minister Narendra Modi and the BJP are unleashing "political vendetta" against them.

Mamata Banerjee has, of course, adopted a slightly different course. She has refused to come out openly to defend Chatterjee who had to be eased out of her government as a minister and as secretary general of the Trinamool Congress.

That's largely because of the terrible optics caused by the seizure of Rs 55 crore in cash and gold ornaments and the discovery of ownership of several flats in the name of his close associate, Arpita Mukherjee.

But her party leaders, however,  believe that the BJP is all out to squeeze them through the Central agencies though they won't say Chatterjee is in trouble because of that reason.

The fact, however, is that the people of Bengal have never seen such visual evidence of corruption though quite a few have believed that those close to Mamata enjoyed proximity in proportion to the "big deals" they handled for her.

In Maharashtra, Uddhav Thackeray went to Sanjay Raut's house to meet his family, a day after the ED arrested him in the Rs 1,034 crore Patra Chawl redevelopment scam.

Read more
https://www.newsdrum.in/columns/from-partha-to-satyendra-jain-to-sanjay-raut-ed-action-on-close-aides-leaves-their-political-mentors-sullied-69813.html