1. Oncore by Clare Smyth

Although Sydney fine dining is still very much trending downwards, Oncore by Clare Smyth has so far proven difficult to resist for gourmands, chefs and celebrities alike. As the first and only female British chef to hold a coveted three Michelin stars, Smyth comes to Sydney with a considerable reputation to uphold. Crown Sydney, too, needed something like this to really up the stakes for Sydney as a culinary capital that can compete with the arguably more well-known flavours of produce-obsessed (and spolit) Melbourne.

2. Pellegrino 2000, Surry Hills

Pellegrino 2000 is a wake-up call to Sydney’s Italian restaurants and a love-letter to those bold enough to tweak the traditions of a cuisine that quite often lives or dies on convention. Reliable chefs Dan Pepperell and Michael Clift and visionary wine guru Andy Tyson run this new Surry Hills restaurant much like they run Potts Point favourite Bistrot 916. 

3. Margaret, Double Bay

As we make the slow-crawl deeper into 2022, the biggest new opening in Sydney is now Double Bay’s Margaret. Australian fine dining royalty Neil Perry has stated this will be his last big project, an ambitious $5 million restaurant in one of the city’s most glamorous neighbourhoods.

4. Ursula’s, Paddington

A piece of Paddington’s dining scene broke when Guillaume Brahimi shut his eponymous fine-diner, vacating the charming 2-floor terrace on Hargrave Street in 2016.

Former Rockpool and Pt. Leo Estate chef Phil Wood has now turned the space into Ursula’s, framing inventive Modern Australian dishes with deep caramel walls and avant-garde light sculptures.

5. Woodcut, Barangaroo

Former owner and chef of widely acclaimed CBD restaurant The Bridge Room, Ross Lusted, now finds himself overseeing one of the biggest new restaurant openings of 2021, alongside his wife and acclaimed restaurateur, Sunny.

Woodcut, so far the culinary champion of the new Crown Casino, tracks everything from black garlic bread and pricey raw fish tasting plates, to immense sirloin steaks and fruit-forward desserts crafted by the highly dependable Lauren Eldridge.