Booked for staging a protest outside a police station in the town of Sidhi, many of 10 men stripped and photographed in their underpants by police believe the local BJP legislator ordered their humiliation, for speaking out against him. Under CM Shivraj Singh Chouhan, who in 2018 declared that human rights were not for criminals, Madhya Pradesh also ranked third by number of attacks on journalists in 2021, after Jammu & Kashmir and Uttar Pradesh. The men said they were attacked and threatened with more police cases. Sidhi, Madhya Pradesh: At 9 pm on 2 April, a group of about 25 men gathered outside the Kotwali police station in the town of Sidhi in north-eastern Madhya Pradesh. They sat on the side of the road outside the police station. A few began to raise slogans against chief minister (CM) Shivraj Singh Chouhan, the longest-serving CM of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), and against Sidhi’s elected legislator, Kedarnath Shukla, also of the BJP.  They were protesting the arrest of a local theatre artiste, Neeraj Kunder.


Ten men were arrested, including a journalist who runs a YouTube channel, seven theatre artists and two others. Later that night, the men were photographed standing inside the police station and seated on the floor of a lock-up, wearing only their underpants. Hame maara-peeta gaya, nirvas‍tr kiya gaya. Kaha gaya ki vidhaayak ke khilaaf khabar chalaaage to chaddi me juloos nikaalenge (I was beaten, stripped. I was told that if I publish news against the member of the legislative assembly (MLA), we would be paraded outside in our underwear),” Kanishk Tiwari, the 35-year-old journalist among those arrested, told Article 14.
Justice. Constitution. Democracy.
Why A Journalist & 7 Theatre Artistes Were Attacked, Paraded In Underwear By Madhya Pradesh Police
ANIL KUMAR TIWARI
 
14 Apr 2022 14 min read  Share
Booked for staging a protest outside a police station in the town of Sidhi, many of 10 men stripped and photographed in their underpants by police believe the local BJP legislator ordered their humiliation, for speaking out against him. 

Sources - https://article-14.com/post/why-a-journalist-7-theatre-artistes-were-attacked-paraded-in-u