Schalke and Hoffenheim will be up against each other on Matchday 10 of the Bundesliga 2022-23. Schalke are at the 16th position in the Bundesliga points table while Hoffenheim sit at the seventh position in the points table.
Schalke have played a total of 9 games this season in the Bundesliga. In these 9 games, they have won a game, have drawn three games, and have been on the losing end 5 times. In the process, they have scored 10 goals and conceded 21 goals so far.
Hoffenheim, on the other hand, have also played 9 games in the Bundesliga this season. In these 9 games, they have won 4 games, have drawn a game on a couple of occasions and have been on the losing end thrice. In the process, they have scored 14 goals and conceded 10 goals.
Schalke vs Hoffenheim Match Details
Match: Schalke vs Hoffenheim
Date and Time: 15th October, 07:30 pm UK (14/10), 08:30 pm Local (14/10), 12:00 am IST
Venue: Veltins-Arena
Schalke vs Hoffenheim Probable Playing XI
Schalke: Alexander Schwolow; Henning Matriciani, Van Den Berg, Maya Yoshida, Tobias Mohr; Tom Krauss, Florian Flick; Marius Butler, Dominick Drexler, Jordan Larsson; Simon Terodde
Hoffenheim: Oliver Baumann; Ozan Kabak, Kevin Vogt, Kevin Akpoguma; Pavel Kaderabek, Grischa Promel, Dennis Geiger, Christoph Baumgartner, Angelino; Georginio Rutter, Andrej Kramaric
Schalke vs Hoffenheim Probable Winners
Schalke have been an absolute disappointment for their fans this year in the Bundesliga. Their defense has looked vulnerable on a lot of occasions and although they will be playing against Hoffenheim at home, the latter are a better side and are in good run of form and hence, we expect the visitors to win this game.
Prediction: Schalke 0-2 Hoffenheim
Schalke vs Hoffenheim Live Stream
Schalke vs Hoffenheim will be televised on the Sony Sports Network in India. Indian Fans can live-stream the match on the Sony LIV app. In Germany, fans can tune in to DAZN and SKY Sports for the live telecast and live streaming of Bundesliga matches.