The meaning of the word gender has evolved in response to feminist writing and gender theory from prior assumptions of biological determinism to the development of gender inequality, gender distinction, leading to the dissolution of this distinction. The pervasiveness of heteronormativity gender and associated with the issues of sexuality and gender identity remains questioned. Similarly, complex ideas regarding gender equality and implementation are increasingly significant because gender equity and female empowerment have become mainstream priorities.However, the complexity and pervasiveness of gender are adequately understood, which is demonstrated by the largely heteronormative nature of gender and development efforts. So, it is significant to consider the changing recognition of gender to appreciate its complexity. Prioritizing the needs of an individual for a bright future goes badly beyond "sex" that is, whether it is a boy or a girl. Gender equality is equal opportunities and equal rights for all, without distinction of sex. 

This in no way intends to prove the men down but it suggests that women are not the weaker sex and, if given equal opportunity, and will prosper remarkably. Because gender equality has no absolutes. It is almost anything & everything a woman is, a woman should be entitled to, with respect to her male counterparts. It is about paying attention to the woman of the past who opposed discrimination and fought for equal rights.

In the 21st century, taking into consideration technology, education, and the intellect of upcoming generations, several movements are undertaken for the promotion of women rights, various campaigns to undertake the obligation of the safety of women and so more, there should be no point in the existence of a 'male-dominant society but to our great disappointment, there is still a 'chauvinist society' yet to be alleviated. It is still a long way to go to achieve the exact equality of men and women.

 Therefore, we need to recognize and celebrate both our men and women equally. It is time to observe gender as a spectrum rather than opposite powers and ideals.