Ever tried to pick up a new habit or teach yourself a new skill? You likely realized early on that daily practice was key to success. Well, that’s true for meditation, too.

“It’s important to meditate daily because you’re cultivating a habit,” explains Sadie Bingham, a clinical social worker who specializes in anxiety in Gig Harbor, Washington. She’s also a long-time meditator herself.

“Most people won’t notice the positive effects immediately, so you need a daily (ish) practice in order to begin seeing the fruits of your labor,” she adds.

Starting a daily meditation practice can be hard, but most people find it’s easier once they start noticing some of its many benefits.

Still doubtful whether you can make meditation part of your life? It’s absolutely possible, and these seven tips for success can help.

Start small -

While daily meditation is a great goal, you don’t need to jump right in at 30 minutes (or longer) every day.
In the beginning, you may not feel very mindful or calm. You might not feel relaxed at all. But that’s OK. Just make it a goal to take five minutes to sit with your thoughts. Be curious about them, but don’t force it.

“Eventually,” explains Bingham, “you’ll feel the tug to sit and meditate.”

If you never get up to 30 minutes a day, don’t sweat it— meditating for even 10 or 15 minutes every day offers benefits.

Find the right time - 
 
You’ll find that different sources recommend different “ideal” times to meditate. But in reality, your ideal time is whenever you can make meditation work.

If you try to make yourself meditate at a time that doesn’t work well with your schedule and responsibilities, you’ll likely just end up feeling frustrated and unmotivated to continue.

Instead, try meditating at different times to see what feels best for you. That might end up being first thing in the morning, right before bed, during a busy commute, or during your break at work.


Sources - https://www.healthline.com/health/daily-meditation#pick-a-time