Universities can play a vital role in shaping change in societies. They produce knowledge through research, train future decision makers, and contribute to public awareness of issues.

But not all universities are rising to challenges like this. Studies have established that efforts to integrate sustainable development into African universities’ curricula and their community engagement processes leave something to be desired. Teaching and research don’t always reflect society’s real problems.

Climate change is another area where universities should be identifying and providing solutions. It’s a complex, politicised and global issue which needs informed leadership.

Kenya, for one country, has neglected the integration of climate change into the education system. None of the commissions that have looked into the education system over the years have dealt with this. In his research, Dr Charles Kariuki noted that Kenya’s education policies treat climate change casually. Hardly any learning about it is taking place at any level.

A 2015 survey of two public universities in Kenya found that they were yet to incorporate climate-related issues into their programmes. This creates a big gap in the production and dissemination of knowledge on climate change. It also limits climate change mitigation and adaptation within the education sector.

There’s very little in the literature generally on how climate change is represented in Kenyan universities’ curricula, campus activities, institutional governance and community engagement work. Our working paper sought to fill the gap.

We reviewed the climate change policy environment in the country and the link between national policies and university policies, actions and practices. Our aim was to understand what Kenyan universities were doing to raise awareness and to create capacity to respond to climate change. Responses could include mitigation, adaptation, impact reduction and early warning.

Drawing on national and international policy documents, peer-reviewed journal articles and national climate change reports published between 1999 and 2020, we found a gap. Universities in Kenya aren’t receiving enough guidance from the government in responding to the impacts of climate change.

Read more - https://theconversation.com/climate-change-isnt-a-priority-for-kenyan-universities-it-should-be-181530