Bipolar disorder is a mental illness marked by periods (or episodes) of severe mood swings that alter emotion, thinking, and behaviour. Bipolar disorders are divided into two categories. Bipolar I disorder is characterised by periods of intense mania and, in some cases, depression. Hypomania is a less severe variant of mania in bipolar II illness. There's also cyclothymic disorder, which is a third form.
Bipolar disorder is estimated to affect 4.4 percent of individuals in the United States at some time in their life. 2Bipolar disease is assumed to be caused in part by genetics, although brain abnormalities and environmental circumstances also play a role. Mood stabilisers are typically the first-line treatment, although severe symptoms may need electroconvulsive therapy (ECT). 
Causes
Nobody has a definitive answer as to what causes bipolar disorder. There is a hereditary component to bipolar illness, according to studies, but DNA isn't the sole factor. Most studies believe that brain and environmental variables are likely to play a role. 
First-degree relatives (parents, children, and siblings) of people with bipolar disorder are more likely to have a mood disorder than relatives of people without bipolar disease. According to twin studies, if one identical twin has bipolar illness, the chances of the other twin having it is believed to be between 40 and 70 percent. The chance of both happening in fraternal twins has been estimated to be approximately 5% to 10%. 

Mood disorders are linked to low or high levels of a certain neurotransmitter, such as serotonin, norepinephrine, or dopamine.
Other research suggests that an imbalance of these molecules is the issue, implying that a neurotransmitter's exact quantity is less crucial than its amount in proportion to the other neurotransmitters.Other research has uncovered indications that a change in the sensitivity of nerve cell receptors may be involved.
In those who are predisposed to bipolar illness, stressful life events might trigger the onset of symptoms. However, once the disease has been initiated, it is possible that it will worsen. Once the cycle starts, psychological and/or biological processes may take over, perpetuating the condition.