One of Earth's most important cooling mechanisms may be disrupted, increasing ozone's role as a greenhouse gas.
Ozone fluctuations in the upper and lower atmosphere were responsible for nearly a third of the warming in Antarctica's ocean waters in the late twentieth century.
The Southern Ocean's warming affects its role as a significant heat sink. Increasing ozone in the lower atmosphere. New research suggests that ozone, a key pollutant, may contribute to climate change. Dr Michaela Hegglin, one of the researchers, said: "Our research reveals that near-surface ozone affects ocean heat absorption.
Managing air pollution may help prevent rising ozone levels and global warming.The new research is published in Nature Climate Change.Simulated fluctuations in atmospheric ozone levels between 1955 and 2000 helped scientists comprehend the Southern Ocean's heat absorption.
Rising greenhouse gases and decreasing ozone in the lower atmosphere caused warming of the top 2km of ocean waters at high latitudes.During the research period, rising ozone in the lower atmosphere contributed 60% of the overall ozone-induced warming in the Southern Ocean. Contrary to popular belief, increases in tropospheric ozone constitute a climate forcing in the Northern Hemisphere.
A hole in the ozone layer over the South Pole was discovered in the 1980s due to chlorofluorocarbon (CFC) degradation.The ozone layer shields the Earth from damaging UV rays. The Montreal Protocol ended CFC production globally.
Hegglin: "There is no doubt that stratospheric ozone reduction influences Southern Hemisphere climate. Ozone grows in the lower atmosphere due to pollution, primarily in the Northern Hemisphere, our research finds." The Montreal Protocol's success in lowering CFC consumption shows that global action can save the earth."
Oxygen and UV rays combine to generate ozone in the stratosphere. Car exhaust gases, for example, produce it in the lower atmosphere. The Southern Ocean's salinity and temperature are impacted by ozone fluctuations in the atmosphere. Both affect ocean currents and hence heat uptake.