As such, it's important to come up with a great title that will show potential readers a bit of your writing skills. Memorable and unique. A good-book-title should be both memorable and unique. The perfect is easily identifiable and unforgettable. David Copperfield by Charles Dickens. Madame Bovary by Gustave Flaubert. Moby-Dick by Herman Melville. Wuthering Heights by Emily Brontë Keep it concise and informative. What's appropriate for titles varies greatly across disciplines. ... 
Write for your audience. ... 
Entice the reader. ... 
Incorporate important keywords. ... 
Write in sentence case. The title of a book, or any other published text or work of art, is a name for the work which is usually chosen by the author.The title of a book, or any other published text or work of art, is a name for the work which is usually chosen by the author. A title can be used to identify the work, to put it in context, to convey a minimal summary of its contents, and to pique the reader's curiosity.

Some works supplement the title with a subtitle. Texts without separate titles may be referred to by their incipit, especially those produced before the practice of titling became popular. During development, a work may be referred to by a temporary working title. A piece of legislation may have both a short title and a long title. In library cataloging, a uniform title is assigned to a work whose title is ambiguous.

In book design, the title is typically shown on The first books, such as the Five Books of Moses, in Hebrew Torah, did not have titles. They were referred to by their first word: Be-reshit, "In the beginning" (Genesis), Va-yikra, "And He [God] called" (Leviticus). The concept of a title is a step in the development of the modern book.[1]

In Ancient Greek Literature, books have one-word titles that are not the initial words: new words, but following grammatical principles. The Iliad is the story of Ilion (Troy), the Trojan War; the Odysseia (Odyssey) that of Odysseus (Ulysses). The first history book in the modern sense, Thucydides' History of the Peloponnesian.