Adam Levine and Behati Prinsloo was seen holding hands while running errands in Montecito, California.
Maroon 5 frontman Adam Levine and his spouse Behati Prinsloo continue to put on a united front amid cheating allegations against him.
The pair have been caught showcasing public displays of affection (PDA) during their latest outings, brushing off any speculation about possible marital issues.
Adam Levine and Behati Prinsloo was seen holding hands while running errands in Montecito, California. They made sure their hands were visible above the shrub that blocked the view of their lower halves.
Levine kept a low profile in a black graphic T-shirt and black baseball cap with a pair of sunglasses. Prinsloo, who is currently pregnant with their third child, also kept it casual in a white cut-out tank top and dark shades, while her long blonde hair was styled in a slicked-back bun.
The two were spotted again a few hours later with the former Victoria’s Secret Angel making a quick outfit change. She traded her white tank for a pink tank top, while her hair was let loose. They were seen having a chat, laughing and even holding on to each other.
Levine and Prinsloo were first spotted together since the cheating allegations on Tuesday.
At the time, they were seen all smiles as they picked up their two children from school near their $52 million Montecito home, showing no signs of marital issues.
Levine’s alleged infidelity was first exposed by model Sumner Stroh, who claimed in a TikTok video that she and Adam had a relationship for about a year, when he’s already married to Behati.
She added that they have not talked for months now, but shared a screenshot of an alleged message sent by Adam to her in which he asked: “Ok, serious question. I’m having another baby and if it’s (a) boy I really wanna name it Sumner. You OK with that? DEAD serious.”
He later issued a statement denying that he had “an affair”. He, however, admitted to showing “poor judgement” and that he “crossed the line”.
More women have since come forward with claims that Adam Levine flirted with them.