Ganesh Chaturthi, a 10-day festival that starts today, is also being enthusiastically celebrated by Bollywood and TV stars. 
Shilpa Shetty, Kartik Aaryan, Shraddha Kapoor and numerous other Bollywood celebrities have shared pictures and videos from their Vinayaka Chaturdashi celebrations.
Here’s how the following celebrities are celebrating the festival this year:

Ananya Panday
Bright colours and floral decorations adorned
Ananya Panday
‘s Ganapati altar. Also visible is the idol holding a modak. She posed in front of her Bappa with her hands folded, looking stunning in a yellow salwar kameez.

Shraddha Kapoor
observed the holiday by bringing a green Ganpati home. She wore an orange dress for the occasion, and she looked stunning.

Arjun Bijlani
Arjun Bijlani moves into a new home and welcomes Bappa into it. He took to Instagram to share a piece of news with his fans earlier. He wrote, “I am a happy man today .. Aaj Graha pravesh hai and will get Bappa home as well . 

Kartik Aaryan
Kartik Aaryan was seen seeking blessings at Mumbai’s famous Lalbaugcha Raja. The actor paid obeisance to the deity on the first day of Ganesh Chaturthi.

Shilpa Shetty and Raj Kundra
Viaan, Shilpa Shetty, and Raj Kundra can be seen twinning while wearing yellow clothing. The actress purchased an eco-friendly Lord Ganesha idol to celebrate the auspicious festival in an environmentally friendly way. In her home’s Ganesh Chaturthi decoration, the flower canopy steals the show.

Dia Mirza
Environmental activist Dia Mirza frequently publishes articles on how to preserve the environment on her blog. She brought home an eco-friendly idol and spoke about the value of sustainability and minimalism.

Hrithik Roshan
On Ganesh Chaturthi, the Roshans welcomed Bappa into their house, and two days later, the celebrations came to an end with visarjan. Hrithik reflected on his youth while celebrating Ganesh Chaturthi at home with his family. The actor kept the furnishings plain and uncomplicated. Long banana leaves and lamp lantern diyas were present.