The Minister of Municipality Dr Abdullah bin Abdulaziz bin Turki al-Subaie stressed that Qatar has been exerting continuous efforts in environmental protection and enhancing sustainable development, as sustainability has been one of the main considerations in the design, preparation and presentation of the FIFA World Cup Qatar 2022, making it an environment-friendly tournament.
He said the tournament will contribute to building a lasting and sustainable legacy to achieve the UN Sustainable Development Goals.
He made the observations while speaking at a special event organised at Floriade Expo 2022 in the Netherlands in the presence of a number of officials, including Annemarie Jorritsma, commissioner-general of Floriade Expo 2022, Qatar's ambassador to Netherlands Nasser bin Ibrahim al-Lingawi, director of the office of HE the Minister of Municipality Mubarak bin Nasser al-Khalifa, and Mohamed Ali al-Khori, commissioner-general of the Qatar Pavilion at the expo.
Minister said the participation of Qatar in this expo comes ahead of hosting the International Horticultural Expo 2023 in Doha, which is line with Qatar National Vision 2030 that has adopted environmental development as one of its pillars, with the aim of developing harmony between economic growth, social development and environmental protection. He also highlighted the National Environment and Climate Change Strategy launched by Qatar in October 2021, which meets the country's aspirations in achieving a greener and more sustainable future.
He said the Qatar expo will begin on October 2, 2023, and continue for 179 days, covering a space of around 170 hectares and with the participation of 80 countries, in addition to various international organisations and representatives of the private sector and government and non-government organisations.
He also appreciated the efforts of the Netherlands in organising Floriade Expo 2022.
Dr al-Subaie stressed that Qatar spares no effort in environmental protection and promotion, and the preservation of the well-being of communities. He noted that Qatar welcomes the participation of about 80 countries in Expo 2023.
HE the Minister also visited the pavilions of a number of friendly countries participating in the exhibition, where he met with some officials of those nations.
 