Another step is being made to increase access to cancer prevention, early detection, treatment and care. Ahead of World Cancer Day and a year after the publication of Europe's Beating Cancer Plan, the Commission is launching a series of new initiatives, announced at the event “Ensuring Equal Access for All: Cancer in Women - Europe's Beating Cancer Plan.” This event focused on gender inequalities and specific measures to address cancer in women. It was the first of an annual series of events, focusing on how to increase equal access for all to cancer prevention and care.

On average cancer affects men slightly more than women in Europe, with 54% of new cases and 56% of deaths. However, female breast cancer is the most diagnosed cancer (over 355,000 women in the EU in 2020). There are also considerable inequalities within and between EU Member States and between population groups in the areas of early detection, diagnosis, treatment and the quality of patient care. This is particularly striking with regard to estimated cervical cancer incidence rates (varying five-fold) and mortality rates (varying eight-fold in 2020 across the EU). These wide variations can be explained by differences in prevalence of the human papilloma virus (HPV), and vaccination and cervical cancer screening policies in the EU countries. Reducing inequalities across the entire disease pathway is the overarching goal of Europe's Beating Cancer Plan.

Today, the Commission is launching four new EU Cancer Plan actions to support Member States in addressing inequalities, improving screening and vaccination against HPV, and supporting persons who have experienced cancer:

The Cancer Inequalities Registry will identify trends and disparities between Member States and regions. It also sheds light on inequalities in cancer prevention and care due to gender, educational attainment and income level, as well as disparities between urban and rural areas. The Registry will guide investment and interventions at EU, national and regional level.
A cancer screening call for evidence will be used to update the 2003 Council Recommendation on screening.

Read more- https://www.eureporter.co/health/european-plan-to-beat-cancer/2022/02/04/europes-beating-cancer-plan-actions-to-increase-access-to-cancer-prevention-early-detection-treatment-and-care/