By Kalim Ahmed

In the past couple of months, India has witnessed waves of hateful, anti-Muslim propaganda become a part of everyday discourse. Conspiracy theories by far-right Hindu outfits attempt to sow seeds of fear against the Muslim community. After “love jihad” and “thook jihad”, the narrative has shifted against “Halal”.

A nationwide campaign for a ban on Halal meat and food products by Hindu Janajagruti Samiti has resulted in two emerging narratives — the sale of Halal meat is a step toward making India an “Islamic state” and companies carrying Halal products, especially those that have Muslim founders, are “anti-Hindu”.

On March 30, Harinder S Sikka, Group Director of Strategic Business at Piramal Enterprises, shared a photo of an alleged ‘Halal policy’ document displayed at Himalaya Company’s Pune factory. Along with the photo, Sikka shared his own interpretation of the policy. While promoting a boycott of Halal, he insinuated that a company holding a Halal certificate meant that its workforce is Muslim and it uses beef extracts in the products.

Soon after this tweet, Rashmi Samant, a former president of Oxford University Students’ Union, tweeted the same document saying, “I like my products cruelty free. So no Himalaya until it says no Halal”. Atul Mishra, the founder of The Frustrated Indian, tweeted the document while questioning Himalaya about its Halal certificate.

Other right-wing personalities, such as actor and BJP MP Paresh Rawal and BJP leader Amar Prasad Reddy, also called for a boycott of Himalaya and Halal products.

Hate campaign against Muslim-owned businesses
The attack on Himalaya Company and its subsidiaries is not new. For the past two years, consistent disinformation campaigns have been used against the company with various false claims.

In 2020, a viral message claimed that Himalaya’s founder funds terrorist groups. That same year, another video was viral where it was claimed that post-Babri judgement, the founder of Himalaya asked Muslims to take control over the judiciary, police force, etc. 

Read the full story here:- https://www.altnews.in/himalaya-drug-co-targeted-with-misleading-claims-related-to-halal-certification/?utm_source=website&utm_medium=social-media&utm_campaign=newpost