It was 4:30 pm on 5 April 2022 when Mohammad Sultan Sayeed received a call from his lawyer asking him to come to the National Investigation Agency (NIA) court in Srinagar, the summer capital of the union territory of Jammu and Kashmir (J&K). 



A soft- spoken man, wearing a kurta pajama and a skull cap, Sayeed, 65, hurried over, unaware at the time that this was the call that he and his family had been waiting for the last four years. When he reached the court, Sayeed, a former government private secretary at a government hospital, was informed that his son Aasif Sultan had been granted bail by a special court that tried cases handled by the National Investigation Agency (NIA). 


“I couldn't believe it,” Sayeed told Article 14. “I was eager to hug my son.” The first thing Sayeed did was to call his daughter-in-law,  Sabeena, Sultan’s wife,  and tell that her husband would finally be home after more than three years. 


The government of Jammu and Kashmir (J&K) had other plans.


As soon as the Sultan, 34, was released from jail, a battery of police officers from a unit called Counter Intelligence Kashmir (CIK) whisked him away to their headquarters in the Srinagar neighbourhood of Humhama, said his counsel Adil Abdullah Pandit. 

“We were shocked because we had not expected that he would be re-arrested again and booked under Public Safety Act (PSA),” said Sayeed.

At a time when the Supreme Court on 11 April 2022 kept in abeyance India’s 152-year-old sedition law for misuse and the incarceration of those wrongly charged, the Public Safety Act (PSA), 1978, of Jammu & Kashmir faces no legal challenge. The PSA is a much-criticised (here, here, here and here) preventive-detention law that allows imprisonment up to two years without formal charge of any person acting in a manner deemed “prejudicial to the security of the State”.

Read More - https://article-14.com/post/as-courts-grant-bail-j-k-govt-uses-43-year-old-preventive-detention-law-to-keep-hundreds-in-jail-6281ae5ba5a64