AK-47 also known as Avtomat Kalishnakov is perhaps the world’s most important and widely used assault rifle and thus rightly takes the moniker ‘King of Guns’. 
The the gun was manufactured post World War 2 in the Soviet Union in 1947 and since 1960s has dominated the small arms of much of the world’s military powers as well as the inventory of pirates, mercenaries and terrorists. But what makes AK such a beast on the battlefield?
Ak-47 is a gas operated assault rifle with a 7.62×39mm cartridge; it has a 30 round magazine, muzzle velocity of 700 metres per second, and a firing rate of 600 rounds per minute that is capable of both semi-automatic and automatic fire. It's also light, cheap, easy to carry around, manufacture and is very accurate.
 But above all, the gun’s ultimate strength lies in the fact that it is designed to take a beating, you can put it under mud, water, sand, superglue it, cover it in grease, even let it rust and it will still shoot without jamming afterwards. It is because of these reasons that AK is operated in most of the globe, while it is also the most smuggled weapon in the world.
Furthermore, it has seen more combat and bloodshed than any other weapon in the last 70 years with statistics indicating that an estimated 20-25 million people have been killed by the assault rifle, making AK-47 the most murderous weapon of all time having seen some of the bloodiest combat scenarios ever.
This includes the Vietnam War, the Fourth Arab-Israeli War, India-China 1967 border clashes, Cambodian Civil War, Bangladesh Liberation War/Third India-Pakistan War, Soviet- Afghan War, Iran-Iraq War, Sri Lankan Civil War, Gulf War, Somalia Civil War, Congo Civil War, Kargil War/Fourth India-Pakistan War, US invasion of Afghanistan, Iraq War, Syrian Civil War, Russia-Ukraine War and many more.
AK-47 is far more than just a gun. If America is symbolized by burgers and coca cola, India by spirituality, tiger, elephant, ancient civilization, Bollywood, Japan by Sony, Suzuki and anime, Germany by Volkswagen, China by Kung Fu, ancient civilization, panda, dragon then Russia is symbolized by vodka and AK.