A study shows that pregnant who are vaccinated against COVID-19 helps to increase the immunity of their newborn.

•COVID-19 has Higher Risks of Causing Severe Illness to Pregnant Women•

Since the COVID-19 vaccines were available in December 2020, doctors have strongly advised pregnant women to get inoculated against the virus to protect themselves and their newborns. According to research from Research Trusted Source, pregnant women are at higher risk of having a serious illness and consequences from COVID-19 than non-pregnant women. Pregnant women who have not been vaccinated are also more likely to suffer preterm delivery and have poorer birth outcomes than those who have been vaccinated. Newborns whose mothers had received the Pfizer-Biotech or Moderna COVID-19 vaccines had a significant level of antibodies, according to a study.

Increased occurrences of severe and fatal COVID infections among expectant mothers have prompted health officials to step up efforts to increase immunization rates among pregnant women. 

To prevent serious disease, fatalities, and bad pregnancy outcomes the Center for Disease Control and Prevention issued an urgent advisory urging pregnant women, those who were previously pregnant (including nursing mothers), and those wanting to conceive to get vaccinated.

•Newborns Immunity Against Infection•

The good news is that when a pregnant woman is vaccinated, her baby is born with COVID-protective antibodies. Dr. Sheryl Ross, an OB-GYN at Providence Saint John’s Health Center Santa Monica, California, told Healthline that getting the COVID vaccine is a win-win situation for both mother and baby. Moreover, the COVID-19 vaccine is also safe during pregnancy, according to a new analysis from the CDC. There was no link between immunization and preterm birth low weight in the study, which examined health outcomes for nearly 40,000 pregnant women.

Antibodies can be formed naturally in response to illness or can be induced through vaccinations. With this in mind, the researcher was able to distinguish between antibodies produced in reaction to immunizations in neonatal blood. The finding is significant since many people’s natural antibody responses to the SARS-COV-2 virus are insufficiently protective.

Read the full article here- https://republicmonews.com/2022/01/18/vaccination-on-pregnant-women-increases-newborns-immunity-study-shows/