While Boris Johnson defends his divisive ‘conversion’ therapy ban that targets transgender people by excluding them from being protected, Wales is progressing with a ban that would protect trans folks and is signing a Memorandum of Understanding to become the “friendliest LGBTQ+ Nation in Europe.”

When Jonson made the decision to discriminate against trans folks in UK’s proposed conversion therapy ban, the Welsh government called him out: “On the day of Transgender Visibility, the Prime Minister chose to abandon the pursuit of protections for a part of our community. This is unacceptable and the partial U-turn is not a victory. The LGBTQ+ community stands as one, and none of us are equal while our rights are up for discussion or barter,” Deputy Minister for Social Partnership Hannah Blythyn said in a statement.

In his attempt to defend his decision, Johnson referes to being trans a ‘novel’ concept and dismisses our identities through the kind of fear-mongering and misinformation that is used to validate hate against transgender people.

“It is alarming and shameful to read how the concerns of LGBTQ+ individuals are dismissed by the UK Government as ‘noise’ to be managed. This is wholly unacceptable,” Blythyn wrote.

Wales will advance in its plans to ban conversion therapy, while establishing a dedicated campaign in Wales to educate and raise awareness on the “horrors and ineffectiveness of conversion therapy practices.”

“Alongside this, work will be undertaken to better understand the impact of conversion ‘therapy’ on survivors to enable support services to be improved and we will establish a working group of experts, to include representatives from faith communities; the health and social care sector; and children and young people’s representatives, alongside LGBTQ+ people to help with this work and advise on key elements as a ban is developed,” the Welsh government announced.

Youth who are subjected to the harmful practice of so-called ‘conversion’ therapy – which baselessly claims to ‘change’ a person’s sexual orientation or gender identity – are twice as likely to be at risk of suicide compared to those who aren’t, and tgnc youth are twice as likely to be subjected to conversion therapy.