Manchester United's 2021-22 season came to an end on Sunday with a 1-0 loss against Crystal
Palace, giving them 58 points in the Premier League, their lowest total since 1989-90.

Erik ten Hag has conducted his first press conference as the 20-time English champions' head
coach, and the Dutchman faces a tremendous task in helping the club reclaim its former glory.

SEASON OVERVIEW

After adding Jadon Sancho, Raphael Varane, and Cristiano Ronaldo to their roster this summer,
Manchester United were expected to challenge for the Premier League title this season,
especially after finishing second in the table last season, five points ahead of Liverpool.

The 20-time English champions finished sixth in the Premier League table, 13 points behind fourth-placed Tottenham Hotspur and 35 points behind champions Manchester City, qualifying
for the 2022-23 Europa League group stage in the process.

The Red Devils were knocked out of the FA Cup in the fourth round, but they did make it to the
Champions League knockout rounds, losing 2-1 to Atletico Madrid in the round of 16.

After a terrible 4-1 loss at Watford in November, Ole Gunnar Solskjaer was sacked, and Michael
Carrick was placed in charge on a caretaker basis until Ralf Rangnick arrived as interim manager at the start of December.

Rangnick managed the Red Devils for 29 games, winning 11 times, drawing 10 times, and
losing eight times. It's difficult to take too many positives from his tenure, since the squad struggled to qualify for the Champions League, and rumors of dressing room problems abounded.

With so many of the so-called key players underperforming, only Ronaldo and David de Gea
can arguably hold their heads high this season. They were dreadful defensively, surrendering 57
Premier League goals and finishing the 2021-22 season with a goal differential of zero.

Hit of the Season: Cristiano Ronaldo

Some claim that Ronaldo's failure to continually push from the front has been a huge issue for
Manchester United this season, but the fact is that they would have struggled without the
greatest goal scorer in the sport's history.