All-Star Weekend underway in Cleveland gave Los Angeles Lakers fans a break from watching their 27-31 team struggle through a challenging season. That respite was interrupted with three notable items on the potential future of LeBron James.

In an interview with Jason Lloyd of The Athletic, James acknowledged he could return to the Cleveland Cavaliers for the third time. "The door's not closed on that," James said. "I'm not saying I'm coming back and playing. I don't know. I don't know what my future holds. I don't even know when I'm free."

James also told gathered media that his future will dovetail with his son's potential NBA career. Wherever Bronny James lands, "that's where I'll be."

And for good measure, James went out of his way to praise Oklahoma City Thunder general manager Sam Presti as "the MVP over there," noting how well the team has drafted, dating back to Kevin Durant when the team was still in Seattle as the SuperSonics.

So what's going on? Nothing to see here? Is James just sharing his thoughts on some random topics? Or do Lakers fans have something serious to worry about?

In short, they do. The marriage between the Lakers and James is in a precarious spot. The relationship between Klutch Sports, led by James' agent Rich Paul, and the franchise is at its lowest point.

Decisions made in July, August and ahead of the February 10 trade deadline have led to a dysfunctional situation. And it’s becoming increasingly clear the Lakers need to come to terms early with James—August 4, specifically—or part ways. 

That's when James is eligible for a two-year extension that could max out at $97.1 million through the 2024-25 season.

If he doesn't extend, James will hit free agency in 2023. The Cavaliers might be able to get to $36.4 million in cap space in an early projection, roughly $10 million short of what the Lakers can pay James. A move or two (trading Lauri Markkanen) could bridge that gap, with a potential starting lineup of All-Stars Darius Garland, Jarrett Allen and James, plus young talents Evan Mobley and Isaac Okoro.