Finally the board decided to sack Ole Solskjaer, in place of him they bought the Godfather of Gegenpressing - Ralf Rangnick. 


Several of the Premier League’s top managers have come from Rangnick’s coaching tree, including Chelsea’s Thomas Tuchel and Liverpool’s Jurgen Klopp. They’re both UEFA Champions League-winning coaches at their respective clubs.

Meanwhile, Southampton’s ​​Ralph Hasenhüttl, former Leipzig boss Jesse Marsch and Bayern Munich’s Julian Nagelsmann are also disciples of Rangnick from their days spent together at Leipzig when he was the RB Global’s Director of Football.



In addition to his role as the club’s newest Interim manager, Rangnick has agreed to stay on for two years as a club advisor even if he doesn’t continue as United’s head coach.   


Style Of Play


Rangnick is credited with the creation of “gegenpressing,” -  the constant pressuring of opponents after the attacking side loses possession through counterpressing. 

The German has always been involved in high-tempo settings, and brought this style to RB Leipzig and Red Bull’s other clubs. 

In fact, during his time at Leipzig, Rangnick would use a clock that was designed to apply pressure to his players. It would give his side eight seconds to win the ball back after losing possession and then another 10 seconds to get a shot on goal.

Everything about Rangnick’s system is about tempo and maximizing the quantity of chances his teams can get each match.


Rangnick historically prefers young players that fit his gegenpressing system, which will make United interesting to watch after signing Cristiano Ronaldo back from Juventus this summer.

United are currently one of the worst pressing sides in the Premier League, with a success rate of just over 28 percent.

For Rangnick to succeed in Manchester, he'll need to get young players like Jadon Sancho, Mason Greenwood and Marcus Rashford to buy into his up-tempo system that relies heavily on a strong work rate when his teams don't have the ball.

 Im attaching the link for you guys to read the whole document.


 https://link.medium.com/3CH4iFCfnnb