X* is a 25-year-old woman from Manipur, the eldest of five siblings and the daughter of farmers. She was living in Delhi with her unmarried partner. In June, 2022, X found out that she was pregnant and was set to marry her partner. 
At the last minute, her partner refused to marry her. 
X was 22 weeks pregnant. Worried about the “social stigma and harassment” that single parents face and without the means to support a child, she sought to terminate her pregnancy. 
But the Medical Termination of Pregnancy Act (MTP Act), 1971, does not allow terminations for unmarried women in X’s situation. This is how her case landed up before the Supreme Court.   
Seeking and providing abortion is a crime under the Indian Penal Code (IPC) 1860 unless the abortion is meant to save the life of a pregnant woman. The MTP Act provides additional circumstances in which abortion is permitted. 
Despite these restrictions, a third of all pregnancies in India are aborted. Of these, around 12.3 million abortions or 78% of all abortions are illegal solely because they violate the terms of the MTP Act, even though they may otherwise be safe. 
At the same time, as the World Health Organization has recognised, abortion-restrictive laws impede access to safe abortion services, and significantly increase maternal mortality and morbidity. Unsafe abortions are the third-largest contributor to maternal mortality in India: eight women die from unsafe abortions every day. 
Women and girls who are impoverished, not literate, live in rural areas, or belong to minority religions or oppressed castes, are at a significantly higher risk of having unsafe abortions and abortions outside the terms of the MTP Act, thus placing them at a heightened risk of adverse health outcomes as well as criminal liability. 
This context underscores all that is praiseworthy about the Indian Supreme Court’s decision in X vs Government of NCT, Delhi. 
Read more - https://article-14.com/post/an-important-first-step-on-the-road-to-reproductive-justice-but-safe-abortion-remains-out-of-reach-63383eddf1325