​Sara Ali Khan


When it comes to the drastic weight loss journey, it is impossible to not mention Sara Ali Khan’s transformation. In one of her interviews on social media she once shared her diet secrets. The diva loves gorging on egg whites, bread toasts and idlis for breakfast, for her lunch she prefers simple desi balanced meals with a small portion of rice, roti, dal and sabzi with some salads. Lastly, for evening snack she relishes homemade Upma.

​Kareena Kapoor Khan


Kareena Kapoor Khan has always been a trendsetter for most weight watchers, right from her soul satiating breakfast ideas to her healthy drinks to stay in shape the diva has been vouching for a balance of healthy balanced diet paired with simple workout

​Bhumi Pednekar


Bhumi Pednekar’s transformation of losing 30 kgs within a few months took the world by storm, but what she eats to stay in shape is no less than a mystery. Her secret meals include a healthy muesli bowl with skimmed milk, fruits and sunflower seeds for breakfast, for lunch she goes for a desi balanced meal with multigrain roti, white butter, dal tadka, vegetables, curd, buttermilk. Interestingly, her dinner includes salad, grilled fish, chicken, vegetables, and brown rice. Last but not the least, she enjoys boiled eggs for a workout meal.

​Malaika Arora


This Bollywood diva is an inspiration for weight watchers, but apart from her yoga and several variation exercises Malaika loves cooking and she often shares her healthy meals with her fans. But there are a few meals she swears by to stay in shape. For breakfast she enjoys a bowl of fruits/ idli/upma/ bread toast with egg whites.

​Katrina Kaif


The gorgeous diva and a fitness enthusiast, Katrina Kaif is popular for her rigorous workout regimen, but what she eats is still a secret. Well, in one of her interviews she once expressed that she follows a Macrobiotic diet and avoids consuming carbs. The actress includes cereals, oatmeal for breakfast, grilled fish for lunch and brown bread with butter. Lastly, her dinner is a simple mix of either soup, fish and grilled vegetables.