America does not follow a fashion agenda; rather, it creates one. There are New York City's famous streets, where Uptowners wear sophisticated staples and Downtown mavericks embody contemporary individualism with rule-breaking statement pieces. Then, on the other side of the country, there's the sleek uniform of Jacquemus blazers and retro jeans worn by LA cool girls like Hailey Bieber and Kendall Jenner. In between, it's all Western flair as far as the eye can see—cowboy boots, Americana prints, and Nudie Suits are the order of the day. In a nutshell, the United States is a melting pot of distinct sartorial bids. It's no surprise, then, that the Metropolitan Museum has decided to dedicate its exhibition and annual fête to the best American fashion designers. This year's Met GalaThe convergence of two separate exhibits is the theme of the gala (In America: A Lexicon of Fashion, which opens on September 18, 2021, and In America: An Anthology of Fashion, which opens in May 2022). Prepare to see some Tom Ford silhouettes from the '90s and a colour palette of red, white, and blue, courtesy of Tommy Hilfiger.

In anticipation of the much-anticipated Met Gala, we thought it was high time to brush up on our American fashion knowledge—to pay tribute to those from Los Angeles to New York who have redefined the term "style" and reshaped our everyday wardrobes along the way. Find the best American fashion designers to shop right now by scrolling down.

The most famous designers are 
1 Marc Jacobs
2 Tom Ford 
3 Michael Kors

and my famous designer is MARC JACOBS
MARC JACOBS 
Marc Jacobs is an American fashion designer. He is the head designer for his own fashion label, Marc Jacobs, and formerly Marc by Marc Jacobs, a diffusion line, which was produced for approximately 15 years before it was discontinued after the 2015 fall/winter collection
AwardsMTV Asia Awards

International Award [Nominee] (2002)

Favorite Fashion Designer

MTV Video Music Awards (VMA)

MTV Fashion Trailblazer Award [Winner] (2019