Election strategist Prashant Kishor once again wants to work with the Congress - though it is not yet clear in what capacity. 

While some claim that he would like to help the Congress in Gujarat, the home state of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and home minister Amit Shah, others suggest that Kishor is keen on joining the grand old party in some senior position. 

Last time when Kishor wanted to join the Congress, there was a lot of resistance from the party leaders who told both Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi Vadra that he is a 'trojan horse' who will be of no benefit to the organisation but would rather build up his political career only. 

Kishor had then gone all guns blazing against the Gandhis, and went on to persuade Trinamool Congress supremo and West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee to venture into Goa. 

What happened there is known to all. The Trinamool Congress poached Congress leaders and deeply hurt the prospects of the grand old party. 

As some in the Congress said that Kishor is behaving like "a jilted lover out to destroy the love of his life over it's refusal to his marriage proposal".

Earlier this week, Rahul Gandhi met colleagues from Gujarat and some of them insisted that the party should rope in Kishor to strategize for the elections, scheduled for November-December this year.

It is also well-known that Kishor has so far been successful only with those who were bound to win- be it Modi, Arvind Kejriwal, Jaganmohan Reddy, MK Stalin, Captain Amarinder Singh, Mamata Banerjee, Nitish Kumar, etc etc. He places his bet only on the winning horse except in few cases. 

He failed miserably when it came to help the Congress-Samajwadi Party alliance in Uttar Pradesh in the 2017 assembly elections or Harish Rawat in Uttarakhand the same year. 

Congress leaders have often pointed out to a statement by Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar who while removing Kishor from the post of the Janata Dal (United) vice-president had claimed that it was Amit Shah who had recommended the poll strategist for induction in his party. Kishor has never denied that claim, they said.