It’s a very scared China that is hosting the Winter Olympics. It fears that the new wave of the pandemic would undo its impossible zero Covid policy and devastate the unprotected population. Hence it believes that even parcels from the West could carry the virus like Anthrax – so they have to ban couriers even. It also fears dissension and has warned foreign athletes not to engage in political activities. When it is scared of its own shadow, why should countries like India consider attending the games giving legitimacy to its claustrophobic authoritarian system and Xi Jinping’s schizophrenia? What is India waiting for?


The Western powers have chosen to have a token boycott by asking their diplomats not to attend the mega event, but India remains firmly supportive of China on this. And if the exertions of Russian President Vladimir Putin are anything to go by then the Indian PM Narendra Modi could even be seen as a guest at the games to confabulate with the Chinese President Xi Jinping for the much-anticipated trilateral meeting.
Indian concerns about China are many. For the past couple of years, China has increased its ingresses through an unmarked border into Indian territory. In June 2020, there was a messy scuffle in which 20 Indian soldiers died – China claims that it lost 4 of its servicemen. There are multiple reasons that China sought to show its aggressive intent towards India.

China watchers claim that Beijing was quite paranoid about the possibility of India having a military alliance with the US under President Donald Trump and changing the balance of power in the Asian region. The Indian government’s decision to abrogate Article 370 and express resolve to retake Chinese controlled Aksai Chin deepened their anxieties.

Later, it found meaning in its apprehensions when the then US Secretary of State Mike Pompeo, talked about militarising Quad – a body that included India. Through its ingresses – also called salami slicing – into areas perceived to be Indian territory and the furious construction of infrastructure, China wanted to challenge.....

https://theprobe.in/what-explains-indias-timid-response-towards-an-expansionist