1. Fatty fish
When people talk about brain foods, fatty fish is often at the top of the list.

This type of fish includes salmon, trout, albacore tuna, herring, and sardines, all of which are rich sources of omega-3 fatty acids

Salmon. Salmon is full of Omega-3, a fatty acid known to be highly beneficial to the brain—Omega-3 provides more oxygen to the brain, and allows us to retain new information, while still remembering old information. The best fish to eat for brain health are salmon, tuna and herring.

2. . Coffee
If coffee is the highlight of your morning, you’ll be glad to hear that it’s good for you.

Two main components in coffee — caffeine and antioxidants — can help support brain health.

The caffeine found in coffee has a number of positive effects on the brain, including (10Trusted Source):

Increased alertness. Caffeine keeps your brain alert by blocking adenosine, a chemical messenger that makes you feel sleepy (11Trusted Source, 12Trusted Source).
Improved mood. Caffeine may also boost some of your “feel-good” neurotransmitters, such as dopamine (13Trusted Source).
Sharpened concentration. One study found that caffeine consumption led to short-term improvements in attention and alertness in participants completing a cognition test (14Trusted Source).

3. Blueberries
Blueberries Can Help Maintain Brain Function and Improve Memory. Oxidative stress can accelerate your brain's aging process, negatively affecting brain function. According to animal studies, the antioxidants in blueberries may affect areas of your brain that are essential for intelligence ( 23 , 24 ).

4. Turmeric
Researchers have found that a compound in turmeric — the spice that gives curry its golden color — could help to improve the mood and memory of older adults. Share on Pinterest A twice-daily dose of curcumin — found in turmeric — has been found to improve memory and mood in older adults.

5. Broccoli
Broccoli is rich in brain-healthy antioxidants like vitamin C and flavonoids. Broccoli also contains compounds called glucosinolates, which the body breaks down into compounds called isothiocyanates. Isothiocyanates can lower the risk of neurodegenerative diseases.