A new study links infertility to an increased risk of heart failure. Women who had suffered infertility had a 16% greater risk of heart failure, according to a study published in the Journal of the American College of Cardiology.
First author Emily Lau, MD, MPH, cardiologist and head of MGH's Menopause, Hormones & Cardiovascular Clinic said the study's findings are "revolutionary." Infertility, pregnancy complications, and menopause all increase a woman's risk of heart disease later in life.
Infertility affects 1 in 5 American women, but its relationship to heart failure has just lately been explored. Lau and colleagues evaluated postmenopausal women from the Women's Health Initiative (WHI) to see if infertility was linked to heart failure.
Heart failure with maintained ejection fraction (HFpEF) and heart failure with decreased ejection fraction (HFrEF) (HFrEF). Ejection fraction is the volume of blood pumped from the left ventricle of the heart during each beat. An ejection fraction less than 50% is considered abnormal.
There is a link between infertility and heart failure, notably HFpEF, which is more frequent in women regardless of reproductive history. 14 percent of the 38,528 postmenopausal women surveyed have experienced infertility. During a 15-year study, infertility was linked to a 16% increased risk of heart failure. When they looked at heart failure subtypes, infertility was linked to a 27% greater incidence of HFpEF.
They looked at other infertility-related disorders such thyroid illness, irregular menses, and early menopause but found no evidence to support that notion either.
Many doctors are unaware of the link since heart failure usually occurs in the 60s and beyond, whereas infertility occurs in the 20s, 30s, and 40s. If we know a woman has had infertility, we can be more proactive in advising her about other modifiable risk factors including high blood pressure, cholesterol, and smoking.

The American Heart Association and the National Institutes of Health funded this study.