By Vivek Gupta

Chandigarh: In the past, the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) government in Delhi and its counterparts in Punjab were often at loggerheads every time air pollution deteriorated in the national Capital after paddy harvesting in Punjab.

It has been a yearly practice for Punjab farmers to put on fire the paddy crop “leftover” aka stubble in order to clear their fields for the next crop in the month of November. 

Farmers in Haryana also resort to stubble burning but Punjab takes lead in burning cases, massively contributing to the deteriorating air quality index (AQI).

As Punjab reported 76,000 burning cases in 2021 against 6,000 reported in Haryana, a central body, System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research (SAFAR), revealed that the share of stubble burning in Delhi’s heavily polluted air touched a peak of 48% last November 7.

Although the grant worth over 1000 crore was distributed since 2018 to subsidise crop residual machines, farmers, especially those of small and marginal status, did not stop field fires.

With AAP now ruling both Delhi and Punjab, stakes are higher for party convener and Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal to effectively deal with the problem as he can no longer pass the buck to Punjab.

Taking a cue from the past whereby farmers demanded cash incentives to stop stubble burning, Kejriwal on Wednesday, July 27, announced a cash subsidy worth Rs 2500 per acre to the farmers of Punjab for not burning stubble this season.

But the success of the plan hinges entirely on the centre’s nod. Kejriwal, in a proposal submitted to the central agency, Commission For Air Quality Management, asked the centre to contribute Rs 1500 per acre while promising to share the remaining Rs 1000 per acre equally from the pockets of the Punjab and Delhi governments.

Several farmer unions and experts welcomed the move. A leading farm economist Devinder Sharma said in a tweet that the AAP party took the right decision to provide cash incentives to farmers for not burning stubble.

Read more
https://www.newsdrum.in/analysis/will-aaps-plan-to-incentivise-punjab-farmers-to-stop-stubble-burning-work-67249.html