For the entirety of her 40 years on earth, Ivanka Trump has had the dubious honor of being Donald Trump’s favorite child. And while it’s difficult to imagine her doing literally anything that would result in Don Jr. or Eric moving up in the ranks, on Thursday evening she came extremely close when the January 6 committee aired a portion of her April testimony in which the former first daughter said she knew there was no evidence that her father had won 2020 election, i.e., the lie he’s maintained for approximately 19 months now.

Not surprisingly the ex-president didn’t take kindly to being thrown under the bus by his own flesh and blood, and on Friday morning, fired up the internet to inform his followers that his eldest daughter doesn’t know what the hell she’s talking about.

Ivanka, of course, stood by her father as he pushed his election lies—as other members of the administration resigned in protest—so she shouldn’t actually receive any credit for only now admitting something that half the country already knew. But the fact that she did, to the January 6 committee, obviously makes her father look even worse than he already did—and clearly, he knows it.

Unsurprisingly, Ivanka wasn’t the only object of Trump’s rage on Friday. He also sent out a series of “truths” attacking former attorney general Bill Barr, who called his election-fraud claims “bullshit” in deposition to the committee and insisted that Vice Chair Liz Cheney’s claim that he supported the rioters’ “hang Mike Pence” chants false. “I NEVER said, or even thought of saying, ‘Hang Mike Pence.’ This is either a made up story by somebody looking to become a star, or FAKE NEWS!” Trump ranted, according to Politico. In reality, Cheney didn’t say that Trump uttered the words “hang Mike Pence,” but that he reportedly suggested to White House aides that the then V.P. deserved what the insurrectionists had in mind for him. Also, his denials would be a lot more convincing if he wasn’t literally on tape defending the “Hang Mike Pence” calls.

Read more:- https://www.vanityfair.com/news/2022/06/donald-trump-ivanka-trump-january-6-hearing-election-claims