Was Quin Snyder's exit from the Utah Jazz a precursor to an exit by one of their star players?

The Jazz have been one of the more active teams during early offseason trade conversations in recent weeks, most notably featuring All-Star center and three-time Defensive Player of the Year Rudy Gobert. Utah has not entertained rival teams' overtures to steal away All-Star guard Donovan Mitchell, sources said, but the Jazz front office has engaged various teams in Gobert discussions.

Bleacher Report previously illustrated the Atlanta Hawks' and Toronto Raptors' interest in acquiring Gobert. As Kevin O'Connor of The Ringer first mentioned, Chicago has also emerged as a potential trade destination for Gobert, sources told Bleachers report.

Any deal that lands Gobert with the Bulls would almost certainly include Nikola Vucevic, the two-time All-Star center Chicago obtained from the Orlando Magic prior to the 2021 trade deadline. Vucevic's contract will expire at the end of the 2022-23 season, and with Zach LaVine set for a lucrative free agency, Bulls brass has been considering their options at center since February's trade deadline, sources said.

Vucevic-for-Gobert seems to make more sense for Chicago, in the Bulls' efforts to fortify a defensive attack around LaVine. And while Vucevic is generally considered a net negative on the defensive end, the popular package that's been mentioned by league executives of Vucevic and second-year forward Patrick Williams would introduce the perimeter defender the Jazz have long been said to covet.

Chicago's willingness to part with Williams remains to be seen. The Bulls were strongly resistant to including Williams in preliminary conversations with the Detroit Pistons to acquire Jerami Grant before the trade deadline, sources told B/R. Adding Coby White, whose value the Bulls previously explored on the trade market, and Javonte Green would make the money work to match Gobert's hefty contract.

For the Jazz to move Gobert, any return would have to be geared toward reshaping Utah to advance further in the postseason. By accounts, Jazz leadership has no intention of rebuilding or pivoting from a period in which they've made the playoffs in each of the last six seasons.

Read more:- https://bleacherreport.com/articles/10037882-latest-nba-offseason-buzz-what-would-it-take-for-chicago-to-land-rudy-gobert