The FIFA season is fast approaching to delight sports fans worldwide, and is being held in the Middle East for the very first time. The FIFA World Cup Qatar 2022 will take place from November 20, 2022 to December 18, 2022.
It is anticipated that more than a million sports lovers and tourists will travel to Qatar to attend this significant event. This event, which is ideal for both frequent travelers and FIFA enthusiasts, will wow attendees with the celebrations planned by the nearby GCC nations and give them the chance to catch the FIFA fever even when in the UAE, Oman, or Saudi Arabia.
While this will be Qatar's first experience hosting such a massive event, UAE is well-versed with hosting visitors at this scale as it has emerged as the fastest-growing sports hosting nation globally.
Numerous international sporting events in the UAE are currently held, drawing millions of spectators from all over the world. The Formula 1 Grand Prix, IPL, UAE T20 League, Rugby Sevens, DP World Tour, NBA Games, as well as different marathons and tennis championships, are just a few of the unending list of sporting events.
A 60-minute flight from Dubai to Doha means visitors can combine the FIFA World Cup in Qatar with a holiday in the UAE. A perfect way to make the most out of this is by opting for a popular and affordable transportation option such as car rentals in Dubai.
The already popular tourism hubs of Dubai and Abu Dhabi stand to benefit the most, as they will host a record-breaking number of sports fans in addition to regular vacationers that visit during November and December.
As reported by Bloomberg, the UAE has announced that it will grant multiple-entry visas to Qatar's Hayya fan card holders, allowing them to travel easily between UAE and Qatar within a span of 90 days. The Hayya fan card is mandatory for ticket holders attending the FIFA World Cup.
https://www.google.com/amp/s/www.republicworld.com/amp/sports-news/football-news/fifa-world-cup-qatar-2022-what-it-means-for-the-uae-articleshow.html