Masvidal and Colby will take center stage in one of the most anticipated fights in UFC history. The thing that makes this fight a gruesome affair is the bad blood between the two fighters. The duo was once the best of friends and made their name in the fight game together. 

Back in 2011, Covington received a phone call from one of the best MMA gyms in the world, America's Top Team, and that's where he met Masvidal. The duo trained together and quickly turned into the best of friends. 

Masvidal first appeared in the fight scene in Kimbo Slice. Masvidal is the epitome of hard work and commitment. Coming from the streets of Miami, Jorge had to fight everyday for his dreams. Before Colby turned cocky, he was a humble and hard-working individual. Colby's honest and humble personality nearly became "the death of him." 

Masvidal made his debut in the UFC a year before Colby, and the duo was living the "American Dream." Everything was rainbows and sunshine until Colby received a message from the UFC. The UFC informed Colby's manager that they were not looking to re-sign him, irrespective of the result against Damian Maia in 2017. 

Colby was guilty of not being able to sell his fight tickets. In one of his interviews, Covington said, "The UFC didn't like my style and that I wasn't entertaining enough." Hence Colby did the unthinkable after his fight against Maia. The American called out Woodley and insulted the whole of Brazil, and that got people talking. The fame got to Colby's head, which resulted in Colby insulting his best friend Masvidal, calling him an opportunist and a journeyman. Colby went from becoming a hero to the villain of the fight game. 

Masvidal returned to the UFC after a 2-year layoff with a bang. Jorfe became an instant hit among the fans when he knocked out Askren with a flying knee. 

Colby's comment broke Jorge's heart and resulted in Masvidal calling out his former best friend. UFC 272 promises to be a violent affair and could also be the beginning and the end of the feud between the two.