US charged four Belarus officials with conspiracy to commit aircraft piracy in 2021. Federal prosecutors in Manhattan charged them for diverting the European airliner Ryanair and forced it to land in Minsk, the capital of Belarus by way of a fake bomb threat. Subsequently, a prominent opposition journalist Roman Protasevich and his Russian girlfriend Sofia Sapega – who were on board at the time — were arrested. The charge was in the form of an indictment filed in US District Court on Thursday.

The Ryanair Boeing 737- 800 carrying 170 passengers took off from Athens, Greece, and was scheduled to land in Vilnius, Lithuania where Protasevich was living in exile. He has been a fierce critic of Alexander Lukashenko, Belarus' s authoritarian president who has been in office since 1994.

Soon after his arrest, a video was released where Protasevich was found confessing to taking part in organising "mass unrest". In the news briefing, he was seen seated beside Belarusian generals, praising Lukashenko whom he had earlier called ' a dictator' and compared to Adolf Hitler. 

The incident is not only a reckless violation of all international norms and US criminal law, it also endangered the lives of all innocent passengers, including four US citizens, flying in the airplane. As the Americans were on board it gives US government the jurisdiction to prosecute the Belarus officials.

The US, the UK, the European Union and Canada have already hit Minsk with a stream of sanctions including travel bans after the incident. 

The piracy move demonstrates how far the disputed leader Lukashenko can go to crush dissent and extend his repressive rule. He claimed a sixth term as a president following the disputed August 2020 election. Soon after he imprisoned all leading opposition figures. His main opponent Sviatlana Tsikhanouskaya fled to Lithuania which lies to the north of Belarus. 

Meanwhile, on Thursday Lukashenko announced a vote on constitutional reforms on February 27. He had promised such reforms in the wake of protests against him after 2020 election.

READ MORE: https://www.nytimes.com/2022/01/20/nyregion/ryanair-belarus.html

https://www.bbc.com/news/world-us-canada-60077773

https://www.theguardian.com/world/2022/jan/21/belarus-us-charges-four-government-officials-with-piracy-over-ryanair-plane-diversion