Translation has always been the bridge between stories tethered to their regions of origin and the wider cannon of world literature, but only a few works of literature manage to make that journey. 

For an international award, the intrinsic superiority of a work of literature by itself isn’t the sole requirement. It needs an extraordinarily skilled translator and literary intermediaries, such as agents or friends in the right places in the literary establishment abroad. In the case of Tagore’s 'Gitanjali', he himself translated much of the Bangla poems assisted by none less than his friend W. B. Yeats, the celebrated poet.

In Geetanjali Shree’s case, Arunava Sinha, a Bengali and English writer, had introduced her American translator-painter Daisy Rockwell to the publisher of the English translation.

It is through translations that a work of literature crosses the borders and boundaries of nations, languages and cultures and comes to belong to the whole world, a theme that so hauntingly permeates Geetanjali Shree’s brilliant novel.

To translate, according to the Merriam-Webster dictionary, is ‘to turn into one’s own or another language’.

That dictionary definition is not inaccurate, but when it comes to literary translation, it also doesn’t encompass the depth and breadth of what translators do. Cambridge Dictionary perhaps comes closer with one of its definitions, describing the action of translating as ‘to change something into a new form’, although that’s still not quite right.

Translator and Chair of the 2022 International Booker Prize Frank Wynne says that yes, you do ‘take a text in one language and you recreate that text in another language, but that sounds disarmingly simple.' ‘In fact you need to pay attention, not just to the meaning of words, but to how they fit together,’ he continues. ‘What the cadence or the rhythm of the sentence is, what the humour or irony in a sentence is, what cultural connotations it might have.’

The International Booker Prize splits its prize money between author and translator, thus acting as an incentive to more brilliant linguists like Daisy Rockwell, the ability to experience it all from someone who perhaps has had very different life experiences to the reader.