UP : War of Words are full-fledged as Union Home Minister Amit Shah attacked SP chief Akhilesh Yadav, saying "goonda raj" will reinstate to Uttar Pradesh if his party comes to power in the Assembly polls. 

While addressing "influential voters" during a door-to-door campaign, he also implicated the Samajwadi Party (SP) and the BSP of promoting dynastic politics and casteism. 

‌AAP releases manifesto for UP elections. The manifesto, named ‘Kejriwal Guarantee Card’, was released by Sanjay Singh, AAP's UP in-charge. 

Some of the promises mentioned in the manifesto include free bus services for women, 300 units of free electricity and a law to guarantee MSP for farmers' produce. 

‌Congress Shekhupura assembly candidate Farha Naeem quit from the party and returned her ticket accusing district president of making “indecent” statements against women.

 Addressing a press conference here, Naeem made declarations against the character of party district president Onkar Singh and announced her resignation. "I was impressed with Priyanka Gandhi Vadra's slogan 'Ladki Hun Lad Sakti Hun' and got the ticket as voice of girls and women but we are offended here, she said.

‌Punjab : On the question of CM candidate Congress leader Rahul Gandhi stated that the party will hold discussions with the Punjab Congress workers before announcing the CM candidate. 

‌Manipur : As per the sources said India Today that the BJP has accepted an “agreement of cooperation” with several party members who might be fielded in the upcoming Manipur assembly elections, in a bid to prevent shifting of allegiance before the polls. The members include those who could be nominated in Keisamthong assembly constituency in Imphal West district and Sugnu in Kakching district.

‌Goa : TMC's Faleiro withdraws candidature from Goa's Fatorda constituency.

‌Uttarakhand: Ahead of crucial Assembly polls, Bharatiya Janata Party leader and Union home minister Amit Shah, is planned to interact with different sections of the society in various programmes in the State.