My rating: ⭐⭐⭐⭐⭐

"if god wanted me to give you up, he wouldn't have made me who am."
beautiful world, where are you explores the relationships and dynamics between four people: alice, eileen, simon, and felix.
what i love about rooney's writing, and this book, is that she writes the romance between characters as more of a psychological exploration into human relationships and their various dimensions.
rather than writing her novels in a 'classic romance' sense, with trite ideals and love interests placed on sky-high pedestals, rooney writes a more grounded, realistic depiction of love and all the joys and turmoils it entails.
this is definitely rooney's most ambitious novel yet; she not only tackles the complexities of relationships with her usual sophistication and sharp wit but also ventures into an epistolary series of historical anecdotes and social commentary through alice and eileen's email correspondence.
the characters attempt to find the meaning of life through internal self reflection and introspection, but also various external outlets: relationships, religion, jobs, family. through the emails, she explores this on a macroscopic scale and how these struggles are also visible in society.
while felix is obviously the weak link (and most useless character), i loved how human all of these characters were throughout the novel in general. they simultaneously crave and reject romantic intimacy and continuously question their own emotions and intentions. it is a reflection of how we behave in real life, and loved how well she articulated these feelings in her novel.
ironically, her characters do not believe in happy endings, yet the fleeting moments of possible happily ever afters lead us to believe in them too. momentarily.
but isn't that enough?
this was a great book to read, and it would have been even better especially during the pandemic, which has prompted us to question and reevaluate relationships in our own lives, both romantic and platonic.
undoubtedly one of the best books of 2022 for me.