Since 2021, we have been hearing reports on Asian American hate in America. It is said in a report released by Asian American advocacy groups, that more Americans are blaming Asian Americans now than in 2021, for Covid-19.


More than 20 per cent of respondents to the survey said this year that people of Asian descent are at least partly accountable for Covid-19, compared to 11 per cent who said last year that the community was to blame. The study, published by Leading Asian Americans United for Change (LAAUNCH.org) and The Asian American Foundation (TAAF), also showed higher levels of scepticism of Asian Americans. 

Whereas respondents said that the people of Asian descent are more loyal to their perceived country of origin than the U.S., have also increased from 20 to 33 per cent in 2022. 

The study’s findings are in alignment with other recent studies on the rise of anti-Asian hate, including one from California State University Santa Barbara’s Center for the Study of Hate and Extremism, which indicated a 339 per cent increase in anti-Asian violence between 2020 and 2021.

Still, nearly one-third of respondents said that they didn’t know that anti-Asian violence is getting worse. Many Asian Americans feel like they don't belong to the country. Twenty-nine per cent of Asian Americans said that they fully belong and feel accepted in the U.S., compared to 61 per cent of white respondents and 33 per cent of Black respondents. Asian Americans between the ages of 18 to 24 experienced an even lower sense of belonging, at just 19 per cent. 

Do you think is it logical to blame a particular group of people who are innocent for a pandemic just because they are linked to the country of origin? Are Americans so savage? Amidst the racism faced by African Americans; Asian Americans' struggles are not getting voiced. Many can't still acknowledge Asian-American existence in the country. We need proper education to know more about Asian Americans as well as their representation should be increased to prevent Asian Hate.