Our fathers and mothers have unforgettable memories, bittersweet stories and narratives of the "28 April" event in their minds. For many, this day marks the end of the suffering, imprisonment, torture and terror of the communist parties, and for many others, the beginning of a new chapter in Afghanistan's contemporary history. 

Collective memory arises from the interaction of the three elements of collective place, time, and event. Cities or the general geography of countries in this conceptual construction have the role of a container or an existential context for the creation of collective memory. Given the importance of the concept of memory and religion in societies, we now ask the question, what is our relationship with the event of the "28 April"? What is the view of the Afghan people on the 28 April incident? Has the event of 28 April been able to engrave itself in the historical, cultural, political and national memory of the people? And finally, that "28 April" as a historical event and capital, has been able to become a social and cultural capital in society?

Now, three decades after the 28 April incident, thanks to history, countless books and documents, the various angles of the Mujahideen victory day in 28 April can be well reviewed and questioned. The Mujahideen's black record, the war-torn image of Kabul in the 1970s, migration, poverty and, most importantly, the reproduction of violence, is the legacy of the 28 April for Afghanistan. A legacy endowed with the sufferings and bitterness of the people of this country. Thus, it can be said that the repetition of violence, the struggle for power, the confiscation of the jihad of the Afghan people by certain individuals and the totalitarianism of the Mujahideen prevented 28 April as a historical event and capital from ever becoming a social and cultural capital. An event that had such a capacity, but due to the power of the Mujahideen, did not become a collective memory in the minds of the people. On the contrary, 288 April became one of the darkest days in the history of Afghanistan.