Everyday I see people talking about criminalizing drugs without understanding the adverse effects that can have on its victims. If someone's a drug addict, making it illegal wouldn't just magically finish the addiction.

Punishment has little effect on substance use disorders or other connected issues. The Pew Charitable Trusts conducted a study that revealed no statistically significant link between state drug imprisonment rates and three indices of state drug problems: self-reported drug usage, drug overdose deaths, and drug arrests.

After people are imprisoned for drug or other charges, they are at a considerably increased risk of drug overdose when they are released. More than half of inmates have an untreated substance use disorder, and illegal drug and pharmaceutical use often skyrockets after a time of incarceration. Relapse can be fatal when it involves an untreated drug use disorder due to loss of tolerance that may have happened while the person was confined.

Despite the fact that statistics vary by drug type, White and Black people take drugs in similar amounts, the legal consequences they suffer are typically very different. Despite the fact that they use cannabis at similar rates, Black people were approximately four times more likely than White persons to be arrested for cannabis possession in 2018. Despite the fact that African Americans and Latinos made up around a quarter of the US population, more than half (56%) of those imprisoned for drug offenses in 2013 were African American or Latino.

“You’re starting life over. You can’t expect to be absent from society and just walk back in. You’ve lost everything – your job, apartment, whatever you had before you’re going to lose that.... Because I caught this felony, I was on the street for five years. I had never been homeless before…. [Y]ou walk out of those [prison] gates and you’re on your own.”
–Charlie West, a former US military medic, describing his re-entry after incarceration for felony possession of cocaine in New York City in 2010.

The stigma that revolves around drug addiction is sad. Especially when it is criminalized, the victims of drug abuse are the ones who are arrested and rarely the suppliers.