After briefly considering letting his friends die in the desert, Max suggests they go back to Joe's house, since it's unprotected and has lots of water. So our heroes retrace their steps, and before Joe can even open his mouth, Furiosa rips it off. Nux commits suicide for a good cause, and Max donates blood one last time. They return to the Citadel as heroes, but Max heads off. 

The stylized machinery, weapons, and artillery of Mad Max are characteristic of dieselpunk, a genre that featured the technology and aesthetic of pre-war 1940's Earth. Which is also post-war
if you think about it. But unlike the gleaming chrome traditionally used in dieselpunk to reflect the optimism of that era, Mad Max depicts grimy contraptions in disrepair that embody a post-apocalyptic society with little hope. Here, all that remains of the glory days are petroleum-based machines which, ironically, contributed heavily to society's collapse in the first place. These gas-powered machines are so integral to the survival of Joe's power structure that the people have come to worship them. Their belief system appropriates the vocabulary of pagan religions, which typically worshipped nature's bounty. They refer to bullet manufacturers as "farmers," and to bullets as the "anti-seed". Joe uses this ideology an d its derision of all things organic to justify hoarding resources, enslaving workers, and waging war. The film examines themes of objectification. Joe maintains a group of concubines to serve as "breeders" of future warlords, storing them inside a giant bank vault like he would jewels or a government-issued savings bond. He dehumanises other women by milking them like cows to provide "mother's milk”. But under Joe's totally totalitarian regime, it's not just the women who are used, Men such as Max are reduced to nothing more than a source of free blood. Even the War Boys are objectified, made into expendable chess pieces. Ultimately, the film espouses an egalitarian message: it takes a man and a woman, both of whom understand the indignity of oppression, to make the something that is justice.