Former union minister Sharad Yadav on Sunday merged his Loktantrik Janata Dal (LJD) with the Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) of Lalu Prasad. 

Yadav had formed the LJD in 2018 after parting ways with the Janata Dal (United) of Nitish Kumar. Yadav had publicly expressed reservations over Kumar's move to once again align with the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) after winning the 2015 Bihar elections in alliance with Lalu and the Congress. 

But the differences with Lalu saw Kumar going back into the NDA, a grouping he had left on a bitter note in 2013 following the naming of Narendra Modi as the BJP's prime ministerial candidate for the 2014 Lok Sabha elections.

With the merger, Yadav and Lalu have come together after over three decades. Both were the members of the erstwhile Janata Dal and Yadav now is keen to unite its various offshoots. 

There is also a possibility that the RJD might nominate Yadav to the Rajya Sabha in the upcoming elections. Yadav's membership was terminated after the JD(U) petitioned M Venkaiah Naidu, the chairman of the Upper House of Parliament, on the grounds that he had voluntarily given up the membership of the party and hence liable for termination. 

Both Lalu and Yadav are in the fag end of their political career and the friends-turned-foes-turned-friends are now grooming their children for the future. 

While Tejashwi is slowly assuming the role of his ailing father and established himself as the rightful heir of the veteran socialist leader, Yadav's daughter Subashani contested and lost the 2020 Bihar elections as a Congress candidate. 

Hence, the coming together of the two won't make any difference to Bihar politics and it more about optics than any gains for the RJD on the ground. 

The two had parted ways in 1997 when Yadav formed his own JD(U), which later merged with the Samata Party of George Fernandes. 

But before that, Yadav was instrumental in appointment of Lalu as Bihar chief minister after 1990 polls. While then Prime Minister VP SIngh was keen on Ram Sundar Das, Yadav with the help of Devi Lal upstaged Singh and Lalu won the contest by three votes.