By NewsDrum Desk

Shifting gears towards a Greener Tomorrow, the world’s largest Natural and Ayurvedic Healthcare Company, Dabur India Ltd Tuesday announced plans to induct a fleet of 100 Electric Vehicles in its Supply Chain for last-mile product distribution. This would make Dabur the first domestic consumer goods company to have a fleet of electric vehicles for distribution, helping the company move closer to its mission of achieving Carbon Neutrality in its Operations.

The first batch of the new Electric Vehicles has been inducted into its fleet in North India and has commenced deliveries in Haryana’s Sonepat area. All the 100 vehicles would be inducted within the next 12 months across the nation, Dabur India Ltd Chief Executive Officer Mohit Malhotra said.

The move will result in a sizeable reduction of carbon emissions annually. The move comes close on the heels of Dabur achieving Plastic Waste Neutrality in India.

“As a Responsible Corporate Citizen, Dabur is recognized for its commitment towards environment sustainability. In line with the Government of India’s focus on safeguarding the environment and promoting a greener India, Dabur has taken the lead in engaging electric vehicles in our operations to replace fossil fuel-powered vehicles, thereby reducing emissions and protecting the environment. Electric Vehicles are an ideal solution to replace conventional fuel vehicles since they are energy-efficient, green and environment friendly. I am confident that this move will also help us propagate the use of electric vehicles even in the hinterland, helping India achieve its Green Energy Mission faster,” Malhotra said.

"Transportation is one of the major pillars of the FMCG industry with hundreds of vehicles being used for distributing everyday-use products across the length and breadth of the country. Vehicular emissions are one of the largest contributors to pollution and EVs are the future to not just keep pollution levels in check but also reduce our carbon footprint, as a nation. It is a matter of great pride for us to take the lead in driving low emissions transportation in the FMCG industry. 

To be continued.....