Last week, the US government added Chinese e-commerce platforms owned by We Chat and Alibaba group (called AliExpress) in the latest list of “notorious markets” that are allegedly engaged in the sale of counterfeit goods and violating copyrights.

The Office of the US Trade Representatives (USTR) identified 42 online markets and 35 physical markets that sell or promote fake products, including shoes, books, music files, movie files, video games and even academic research papers.

Chinese online commerce sites like Baidu, Wangpan, Tabao etc had already featured in the list of notorious markets, but We Chat and Alibaba, two leading Chinese corporations, were added for the first time. There were also 9 physical markets in China that apparently manufacture, distribute and sell counterfeit goods,” according to the USTR’s list. According to the report, counterfeiting globally costs the US economy around $29.2 billion per year, and China is the largest producer of fake goods.

The report also claims that China also produces the “greatest number of products made with forced labour, including state-sponsored forced labour”, covertly pointing at detention camps in Xinjiang. In a separate report USTR stressed the need for new strategies to deal with China’s state-led “non-market policies and practices.”  

China, however, strongly protested after the publication of the list as “irresponsible” and devoid of objectivity and solid evidence. China’s ministry of Commerce claimed the country is a hub of innovation ranked 12th on 2021 Global Innovation Index.

Some US industry bodies welcomed the release of the new list. Alibaba said it will work on demands by government agencies and address issues regarding copyright and intellectual property.

The latest addition in the USTR list underscores the trade tensions between US and China over issues like tariffs, intellectual property, copyrights and so on.

READ MORE:

https://www.cnbc.com/2022/02/18/us-adds-tencent-alibabas-e-commerce-sites-to-notorious-markets-list.html

https://www.scmp.com/economy/china-economy/article/3167683/china-hits-back-irresponsible-us-report-labelling-it-top

https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2022-02-17/u-s-adds-wechat-aliexpress-to-list-of-notorious-piracy-markets