There are places that get known for some food item they specialize in. A small hill town Kasauli – a two-hour drive from Chandigarh – is famous for its bun samosa.

Legendary writer late Khushwant Singh, who used to spend the summers in Kasauli, had written about Kasauli’s specialty bun samosa in his column - “Stuffed with samosa and chana and enclosed in a sliced bun – It is India’s answer to hot-dog or burger; belly-filling, starchy, stodgy like any American junk food.”

Anyone, be it a commoner or a celebrity, visiting the colonial era hill station can’t resist having bun samosa.

Tracing bun samosa’s history    

Kasauli cantonment was established in 1842 and around the same time, the Lawrence School, Sanawar – the world’s oldest co-educational boarding school – was established (1847) on a hill top near Kasauli. The history of Kasauli’s famous bun samosa is as old as when the Sanawarians were allowed a weekly Sunday outing to visit Kasauli.

“In the pre-independence era, the majority of the students in Sanawar School were Britishers. During their weekly outing, they were allowed to visit Kasauli and the sweet shops there had Indian dishes, so, for British students, samosa with bread or bun used to be the only option. Gradually, chana was added with samosa & stuffed in a sliced bun. This was how Kasauli got its famous food item bun samosa,” says Narinder Sahu, whose family has been running the hill town’s famous Narinder Sweet House since 1976.

Before Narinder Sweet House, Jagdish Sweets used to carry the Kasauli’s legacy of bun samosa. Because of a family tragedy, Jagdish Sweets was closed down around four decades ago.   

“For our weekly Sunday outings, we used to get Rs 1 pocket money. After watching a movie our destination used to be at mall road for bun samosa,” recalls KK Chauhan, 73, whose first outing was in 1959. “In our times, during outings, bun samosa used to be the staple diet for Sanawarians. In that limited pocket money, bun samosa was the only thing we could afford,” adds Chauhan, who is from the 1965 batch & currently based in Nahan.