The Anganwadi centres  Health and Wellness centres, and schools of the city conducted many activities. As part of the integrated child development services (ICDS) projects during the month, the Anganwadi Centers conducted health talks about nutrition for pregnant ladies, lactating women, and adolescent girls at Indira Colony. The event included activities like the importance of hand washing, tree plantation, a lecture on anaemia, an awareness session on adolescent age, the challenges, and the right age of marriage, and home visits.

The other major activity organized by the Aganwadi Centres was 'Dadi Maa Ke Nuske' at Khuda Lahora. A youth group meeting, a lecture on diarrhea, counseling of parents of children affected by Severe Acute Malnutrition (SAM), counseling of pregnant women preparing for childbirth and a lecture on the conservation of water were the activities conducted on the occasion.

Screening of children affected by SAM and Moderate Acute Malnutrition (MAM), was also conducted, which included a youth group meeting, a lecture on breastfeeding, awareness about COVID-19, discussion on low-cost recipes, and home visits, at Dhanas.

An awareness session on waterborne disease and diarrhea, and the benefits of Gilloy and Tulsi as immunity enhancers was conducted at Aganwadi Centre, Sector 24. A talk on a healthy lifestyle and the importance of a balanced diet during pregnancy and lactation was conducted at AYUSH Dispensary, Civil Hospital, Sector- 22, Chandigarh. 

A food safety awareness camp was put up for the morning walkers outside the park, Sector 49, Chandigarh, by the Food Safety and Standards Authority of India (FSSAI).

The Health & Wellness Center, Sector 47, organized a lecture on the importance of a healthy and balanced diet in daily life. A lecture on hygiene and a healthy diet was also organized at Health & Wellness Center, Sector 33. Government Yoga College organized a yoga session to mark Day 3 of Poshan Maah.

Municipal Corporation Chandigarh hosted an awareness session on lifestyle disorders for women from a Self Help Group at Ramdarbar as part of the National Urban Livelihood Mission (NULM).