Nowadays every big club needs a left-footed center-back. Big clubs like Manchester United, Tottenham, and Chelsea lack a left-footed center-back. There are a few top left-footed center-backs such as David Alaba, Pau Torres, and Alessandro Bastoni - to name a few. Sven Botman is the new and upcoming left footed center-back, currently plying his trade in Ligue 1 club Lille. 


The Dutchman began his football career at Ajax Jong. He joined SC Heerenveen before penning a five-year deal with Ligue 1 outfit Lille in 2020-21. 


His main position is a center-back and he usually plays as a left center-back for the Ligue 1 team.

Looking at his season heatmap, we can see that his actions have happened mostly on the left side of the pitch. 



Style of Play


Standing at a mammoth height of 193 cm, his playing style is compared to his compatriot Virgil Van Dijk, who is amazing aerially. He is a player who can be termed as lazy, keeping possession while exchanging short passes while progressing with the ball. He jumps into action, when the team is under immense pressure from the opponents, clearing and heading the ball away from the danger zone. 


Strengths


Looking at the Dutchman’s towering height one can make an assumption that he will be a beast in the air, winning aerial duels at ease. He also excels in man-marking his man and tackling them. His vision for exchanging passes is something to be noted for. He makes quick and pivotal passes when clearing out the ball from the danger zone, rather than haphazardly clearing it and praying for his teammate to find the ball. His great personality and willingness to be a top-class center-back is what makes him stand out from the rest.


Passing


As aforementioned, the Dutchman likes to play short and medium crisp passes to his teammates while progressing the ball forward. He has made a total of 418 successful short passes, having a pass % of 92.5, while he has made 657 medium passes and he ranks 93.9%. He has made 72 progressive passes and made 7 dangerous passes