Every week there seems to be a new fitness challenge trending online. But one that’s managed to remain popular over the last couple of years is the 75 Hard Challenge. On TikTok alone, the hashtag #75Hard has more than 1.2 billion views.
It’s easy to see why this particular challenge has remained so popular, with video after video of people showing off their staggering body transformations – which they claim are the result of the challenge.
The 75 Hard challenge is not for the faint of heart. In short, it involves doing each of the following daily for 75 days:
Two 45-minute workouts
Following a diet (whatever diet you choose)
Reading ten pages of a non-fiction book
Drinking 4.5 litres of water
If any component is failed, the challenge must start again from day one.
Quarter life, a series by The Conversation
This article is part of Quarter Life, a series about issues affecting those of us in our twenties and thirties. From the challenges of beginning a career and taking care of our mental health, to the excitement of starting a family, adopting a pet or just making friends as an adult. The articles in this series explore the questions and bring answers as we navigate this turbulent period of life.
The creator of this challenge claims that completing it will allow you to change your life forever and lead to career success, greater confidence and better relationships alongside being physically fit. There’s currently no scientific evidence to support these claims.
Although the requirements of the 75 Hard challenge are pretty outlandish by most people’s standards, seeing the transformations and online testimonials of how the challenge changed lives may explain why many continue to be curious about it.
Here’s what to know if you’re thinking about giving it a try.
Is it safe?
The two main components of the 75 Hard challenge (eating right and exercising regularly) are of course good for your health. 
Read more: https://theconversation.com/75-hard-what-you-need-to-know-before-taking-on-this-viral-fitness-challenge-187551