Royal titles are granted by the Queen, and often awarded on special occasions. When choosing a title, the Queen must consider both how the title had been previously used and how it will be used again in the future. 

But there's one royal title that Queen Elizabeth has banned from ever being used again - Duke of Windsor.

The last Duke of Windsor was Edward VIII, the Queen's uncle who abdicated his throne for love back in 1936. According to royal expert Richard Fitzwilliams, Edward VIII has sullied the title of Duke of Windsor. And now the royal title is unusable for future members of the royal family. 

The Dukedom of Windsor is unlikely ever to be used again as it will forever be identified with the Queen’s uncle, who abdicated in 1936 to marry the twice-divorced Wallis Simpson.

The story of Edward's abdication is the stuff of legend, and quite a few TV shows and movies. Edward met twice-divorced Wallis Simpson in 1931, so he began an infatuation that would last the rest of his life.

Edward's father, King George V, died in early 1936, making Edward king. Yet Edward was so determined to marry Wallis that she obtained a preliminary decree of divorce in late 1936, so the pair could marry before Edward's coronation which was scheduled for May 1937.

However, Edward had been king for less than a year when, due to public outcry and condemnation from the Church of England and Houses of Parliament over the marriage, he became the first English royal to voluntarily abdicate the throne. Winston Churchill, then a Conservative backbencher, was the only notable politician to support Edward.

Edward signed abdication papers on December 10, 1936, and made the announcement via radio broadcast to his subjects the next day, saying, "I have found it impossible to carry the heavy burden of responsibility and to discharge my duties as king as I would wish to do without the help and support of the woman I love.'

Yes, Wallis Simpson is the woman whom history has largely vilified and painted as the cause of the downfall of a king.