Katherine Johnson was an American mathematician whose calculations of orbital mechanics as a NASA employee were crucial to the achievement of the first and following U.S. crewed spaceflights. 
‌
During her 33-year career at NASA and its predecessor, she received a reputation for achieving complex manual calculations and helped initiate the use of computers to conduct tasks. 

The space agency reported her "historical role as one of the first African-American women to work as a NASA scientist".
‌
‌Johnson's work comprised calculating trajectories, launch windows, and emergency return paths for Project Mercury spaceflights, including those for astronauts Alan Shepard, the first American in space, and John Glenn, the first American in orbit, and rendezvous paths for the Apollo Lunar Module and command module on flights to the Moon. 
‌
‌Her calculations were also crucial to the beginning of the Space Shuttle program, and she labored on plans for a mission to Mars. She was realized as a "human computer" for her enormous mathematical capability and ability to work with space trajectories with such little technology and recognition at the time.

In 2015, President Barack Obama awarded Johnson the Presidential Medal of Freedom. In 2016, she was presented with the Silver Snoopy Award by NASA astronaut Leland D. Melvin and a NASA Group Achievement Award. 

She was depicted by Taraji P. Henson as a lead character in the 2016 film Hidden Figures. In 2019, Johnson was awarded the Congressional Gold Medal by the United States Congress. In 2021, she was inducted into the National Women's Hall of Fame.

She also helped to compute the trajectory for the 1969 Apollo 11 flight to the Moon. During the Moon landing, Johnson was at a meeting in the Pocono Mountains. She and a few others crowded around a small television screen watching the first steps on the Moon.

Johnson spent her later years enabling students to enter the fields of science, technology, engineering, and mathematics (STEM).