What impact have the strikes had on students?
Without prejudice to the justification for the strikes by university teaching and non-teaching workers, they have cumulatively disrupted the training of the workforce. The academic calendar is the immediate victim and the normal duration of academic programmes has been elongated. This has implications for the career plans of students and staff.

Students stay longer in school, lose valuable years, and defer or forfeit post-graduation opportunities. The uncertainty and disruption subject them to financial, material and psychological stress.

These challenges affect their academic performance and, by extension, the quality of their degrees.
Striking staff themselves pay a steep price. Institutional staff exchanges, research activities, sabbatical and study leave, and promotion prospects suffer setbacks. They are denied wages each time government applies the no-work no-pay policy. However, these wages are eventually released after the suspension of each round of strikes.

The national economy pays a high price for the disruption of a sub-sector that provides its workforce. Potential graduates are held back from applying their needed skills in the economy. Overstaying students take up resources that their sponsors could have used elsewhere.

On the other hand, private universities have taken advantage of the strikes in public universities by using the uninterrupted academic calendar as their unique selling point. This is evident in the increasing number of private universities, which grew from 50 in 2014 to 99 in 2022.

Are strikes effective for industrial disputes in the university system?
Strikes are weapons of last resort. But if the country is not alive to its best interests of providing a good education system that runs on a stable calendar and produces high quality, globally competitive products, the union should focus on the welfare of its members, who earn slave wages in a modern economy. A professor earns around US$1,000 per month.

Is it right to create new state and federal universities if existing ones aren’t well funded?
The government has created multiple universities and converted colleges of education and polytechnics into full-fledged universities. 

Raed more - https://theconversation.com/nigerias-university-strikes-winners-losers-and-ways-forward-179698