By Tanzila Shaikh 

An ever-increasing number of brands focused on kids are treading into the Metaverse today. This race for capturing the most tech-savvy generation’s attention works quite well for the brands, but there are also growing concerns regarding the kids’ safety too in a largely unregulated space.

Some other concerns also include the impact the ‘Phygital’ world would have on the mental growth and learning ability of the children and also the benefits that this experience would bring.

Most recently, Lego partnered with Epic Games to build a metaverse for kids. Nickelodeon too organised Kids Choice Awards and enabled Metaverse technology for children in India to attend the award ceremony. Audiences attended the awards with avatars with a gamified approach and activities in the event. Nike built ‘Airtopia’, a kids’ world in the metaverse. Recently, children fashion brand Balabala announced its entry into the metaverse, creating a hyper-realistic digital brand ambassador named 'Rainy'. Other kids’ brands, including Hasbro and Mattel, have also begun with their Metaverse journey. 

Metaverse is already being adopted by kids across the globe, brands are quick to understand this and are already targeting kids in the Metaverse. This could be gauged from the above-mentioned developments occurring in 2022. 

Metaverse opens the floodgate of imagination for kids

Niraj Ruparel, Head Of Mobile and Emerging Tech – GroupM India, Emerging Tech Lead - WPP India, believes that Metaverse can be a powerful way for children to develop their self-identity and improve the horizon of their creativity and imagination. He said, “They learn about how to interact and the reaction they get from others based on their behaviour.”

He further said that the reason the metaverse has captured everyone's imagination is that it takes us back to a time when we were not limited by the real world - when we were children, we dreamt big and used our imagination to escape the boring moments in our lives. 

Read the full story here:- https://bestmediainfo.com/2022/07/brands-are-wooing-kids-in-the-metaverse-but-how-safe-is-the-phygital-world-for-the-young-ones