You've probably felt the sting of betrayal if someone close to you has ever betrayed your trust. This kind of pain can leave deep scars.

Any sort of betrayal can create emotional discomfort, but when someone you rely on to respect your needs and generally protect your well-being breaches the confidence you've placed in them, you might endure long-term trauma.

Betrayal trauma usually refers to the persistent agony and anguish that follows:

a parent's or another caregiver's betrayal of a child
a romantic partner's treachery
When you rely on someone for fundamental necessities, affection, and protection, you may be willing to endure treachery in order to protect yourself.

You may also find yourself accepting the likelihood of future betrayals, which can damage your self-esteem, emotional well-being, and ability to create bonds with people.
People frequently react to betrayal by withdrawing from the one who has deceived them. However, if you rely on someone to meet certain needs, this response may not be possible.
Following a betrayal in a love relationship, you may experience lasting trust issues and self-doubt. Even if you decide to give your partner another chance, rebuilding trust can take months, if not years.

If you reacted with childhood trauma by dissociating or shutting out what happened, your memories will ultimately reappear, especially if something similar occurs. It's possible that blocking them again isn't an option. Even if you are able to push your memories to the back of your mind, this will not help you heal.

Although everyone's path to recovery will be different, these techniques can assist you in taking the first steps.

The anguish that results when someone you love and trust does something to undermine the basis of your relationship can be severe.

You can recover, and you may even become stronger as you reclaim your sense of self and learn how to form healthy connections. Are you prepared to take the first steps? A therapist can help you along the journey.