The Build Back Better bill, the centerpiece of the Biden administration’s domestic policy, cleared the House of Representatives by a slender margin largely along party lines in November 2021.

Legislative progress came to a sudden stop a month later when Sen. Joe Manchin announced, in a Fox News interview, that he would not support it. Without the West Virginian’s vote, Senate Democrats lacked the majority they needed to pass the bill.

Manchin raised concerns about inflation and objected to several of the measure’s energy provisions. He also had qualms about a program that had been temporarily helping, according to one estimate, over 90% of the children in his state: the expansion of the child tax credit.

As far back as the Nixon administration, the federal government’s efforts to give low-income families financial assistance have repeatedly sparked the same debate: How can the government, at a reasonable cost, provide adequate benefits for children in need and strong work incentives for their parents or guardians?

Solving this problem, as I observed long ago as a graduate student studying the Nixon plan and a similar one debated in the United Kingdom in the 1970s, depends more on political calculations than on economic analysis.

A 1-year trial run
The Biden administration’s $1.9 billion COVID-19 relief bill, which Congress passed in March 2021, included a single-year expansion of the child tax credit.

This benefit for families with children originated with a tax package Congress passed in 1997. Lawmakers subsequently modified it several times, often with bipartisan support. Prior to 2021, the most recent update was part of former President Donald Trump’s 2017 tax reform package.

Biden’s version gave most U.S. families a credit against taxes of $3,000 for each child from age 6 to 17, and $3,600 for those younger than 6. Lower-income families could obtain this credit as six monthly cash payments from July to December, reserving the rest of the money for a lump sum at tax time in 2022. The monthly payments ceased in January 2022.

Read more at The Conversation: https://theconversation.com/why-getting-congress-to-fund-help-for-us-children-in-poverty-is-so-hard-to-do-175190

Image Credits: https://www.gettyimages.com/detail/news-photo/house-speaker-nancy-pelosi-speaks-at-a-press-conference-on-news-photo/1328914081