A sock designed in Canberra could be on its way to space, with NASA set to trial science's solution to sensory loss.

A University of Canberra team developed a way to assesses the impact of weightlessness on astronauts and has now designed a sensory sock to counteract those effects.

Dr Gordon Waddington, Professor of Physiotherapy at the University of Canberra, has recently returned from the Human Sensorimotor Research Lab at the NASA Johnson Space Centre where trials of simulated weightlessness are underway.

According to Dr Waddington, because astronauts use their hands to get around in space, sensory in their lower limbs becomes massively reduced.

"Of course, that would be pretty catastrophic if you need to get out and do research on the surface of another planet," he said.

Assessing the impact of long-haul space travel involves bedrest studies within the human research program at NASA.

During the tests, participants lay down on a bed tilted down at the head, with their shoulders flat on the bed for 60 days, Dr Waddington said.

"If you drink water, have dinner, everything you've got to do, you've got to do it lying down," he said.

"They're incredibly intensive studies and incredibly expensive studies because you've got to have medical support."

Having assessed the impact of weightlessness, the next stage will be incorporating somatosensory socks into the tests.

Alongside PhD student Ashleigh Marchant and Associate Professor Jeremy Witchalls, Dr Waddington developed a sock with a textured lining, which has shown signs of improving performance.

Dr Waddington said what happens to astronauts feet and ankles in space was very similar to what happened to people when they aged, meaning their work had broader implications for people on planet Earth.

He said the research they're doing for NASA could be used to inform work on reducing fall risks for the elderly.

"Targeting the soles of the foot is very much to enrich that sensation the person feels, whether they're an astronaut or an older person," Dr Waddington said.