Uncertainty in defence

The Red Devils have had defensive issues throughout the season. Harry Maguire and the summer signing Raphael Varane are the first-choice center-backs.  

Raphael Varane has struggled with fitness issues since joining the club in August. Meanwhile, Harry Maguire has committed a lot of individual errors. Owing to this, he was even jeered by the England fans last week at the Wembley Stadium. 

Hence the incoming manager could have to even sign a new center-back when they come in. It has to be seen what they decide to do. 



No Champions League football! 

Though this has not been confirmed, it looks very likely that Manchester United could miss out on the UEFA Champions League next season.

No UEFA Champions League football could see an impatient reaction from the fans. To add to this, the club would certainly lose money on sponsorships, hence increasing the pressure on the manager as well. 

Not just sponsorships, but Manchester United could even lose the likes of Cristiano Ronaldo and Paul Pogba if they fail to qualify. To add to this, potential new signings would also think twice before joining the Red Devils in the summer. 




Who will play in Manchester United's midfield next season? 

Paul Pogba, Jesse Lingard, Van de Beek, and Juan Mata are rumoured to be leaving United in the summer. Hence this would have an adverse reaction on Manchester United's midfield depth. 

The Red Devils recently signed Bruno Fernandes on a new long-term contract. But Fred, McTominay, and the rest of the players have been inconsistent. Hence the new manager would certainly have to scout the market to add quality midfielders to the squad! 




Who would be the goalscorer next season? 

Edinson Cavani looks set to be leaving Manchester United. To add to this, Anthony Martial, Marcus Rashford, Cristiano Ronaldo, and Mason Greenwood have an uncertain future ahead of them due to their respective reasons.

Owing to this, the incoming manager could have to sign new attackers in the summer. Hence it has to be seen what changes would the new United manager make as there would be high expectations from the board and fans alike. 