According to the demographics of India, over 28 percent of the population is between the age group of 0-14. This age group is yet to be vaccinated and schools are likely to open for the coming year. How prudent is it to send kids to school.
Doctors feel it's absolutely fine and starting school is the best option. We spoke to Dr Neeraj Nischal, Additional Professor of Medicine at AIIMS. 

Q:With the age group 3 to 14 still unvaccinated, how prudent is opening of schools?
A: Schools have to start. Children are safe compared to adults as they have better regulated immune system. The difference is immune response of children is pliable, it learns. Majority of children get viral illnesses in childhood, its a way of developing/learning for their immune system. So in children immune system takes care of viral illnesses-this type of response is better regulated in children. 
In adults on the other hand the immune response is rigid and not willing to learn too much and gets easily offended! Covid 19, is prime example of that, where in adults there is high possibility of immune dysregulation leading to cytokine storm which causes morbidity and mortality. Vaccines fill in to boost the immune response in the adult without causing dysregulation.
Coming back to whether children are vulnerable without vaccines.
There is no data to support that children are more vulnerable without vaccines. In Fact in our own experiences during covid 19, we haven't seen many severe disease or deaths in most of the children. There were deaths in children but due to comorbidities like childhood malignancies/renal or liver disease. These children were unfortunately in their terminal stage due to their underlying illnesses.
We have to be careful about our children, but too much fear is irrational . If we look around, everyone has some horror story to share about the devastating second wave but how many of these stories are about children!
If a family has been infected children would have definitely gotten affected, and would have developed immune response like they do for other infectious illnesses. Majority would have immunity against covid 19 .