Two pairs of parents are suing Massachussett’s Ludlow School Committee and several school administrators, over the school system’s attempts to affirm transgender and nonbinary students while protecting their identity from unsupportive parents.

The attacks come from the misinformed notion that children are being encouraged to ‘become’ transgender – an idea that is being used to justify the hate and erasure against tgnc folks by stripping access to healthcare and safe spaces.

Similar to how no one can decide whether or not they will be born, no one can ‘decide’ whether or not they’ll be transgender.

Rather than attempting to understand who their child is, the parents from the lawsuit are upset at the school, which unlike them, is not reducing their children to outdated gender markers on their birth certificates.

What is this attachment to a piece of gender essentialist paper? Leading medical organizations like the American Medical Association, have advocated to stop recognizing the unscientific sex-binary as a legal designation.

“Assigning sex using a binary variable and placing it on the public portion of the birth certificate perpetuates a view that it is immutable and fails to recognize the medical spectrum of gender identity. Participation by the medical profession and the government in assigning sex is often used as evidence supporting this binary view. Imposing such a categorization system risks stifling self-expression and self-identification..” AMA stated in a report.

While transgender and nonbinary folks’ identities are often reduced to pronouns in the cisgender gaze that attempts to mock us, the focus on pronouns reveals more about transphobes than it does about tgnc folks.

When you misgender and deadname someone on purpose, you are showing us that the way you perceive people is through the lens of gender essentialism and a non-scientific binary where you navigate your interactions based on someone else’s body rather than who they are.

Committing to move away from this gender essentialism brings us closer to leading with love, and away from a patriarchal structure designed to hurt us all.