‌ While understanding the difficult reality of high prices caused by near record-high inflation, Biden pointed to the 390,000 jobs created last month to assert that the US is in a strong economic position.

“I know that even with today’s good news, a lot of Americans remain anxious, and I understand the feeling,” the US president said. “But there’s every reason for the American people to feel confident that we’ll meet these challenges.”

Polls show Americans are viewing the US economy with a heightening sense of pessimism, as experts warn of a potential recession. Inflation is the only factor which republicans have a high chance of winning despite the inclusive approach of Joe Biden.

Americans are feeling the brutal impact of inflation. Gas prices are at record highs and continuing to climb, partly due to the war in Ukraine. Wages have gone up in the past year, but those gains have been wiped out by inflation. 

The cost of living ranks as one of Americans’ top concerns, with a recent Pew Research Center survey showing that 70% of US adults view inflation as a very big problem for the country.

Biden and his advisers are aware that concerns about the economy could be a heavy weakness for Democrats in November, and they are taking steps to enhance Americans’ outlook. The White House announced this week that it was undertaking a month-long campaign to highlight Biden’s economic accomplishments since taking office.

As a new effort, Biden wrote a Wall Street Journal op-ed highlighting his plan to battle inflation. The president also met Tuesday with the chairman of the Federal Reserve, Jerome Powell, and White House officials have made dozens of television appearances in the last week to highlight the best components of the US economy.

The Federal Reserve is now taking aggressive steps to slow the speed of inflation. The central bank announced last month that it would raise its benchmark interest rate by 0.5 percentage points, marking the sharpest increase in more than 20 years. Several more rate hikes are expected in the coming months.

Source: The Guardian