Punjab : Punjab polls: Shiromani Akali Dal chief Sukhbir Singh Badal declares assets worth Rs 122.77 crore.

‌Punjab gets high on polls: Enforcement teams have seized liquor, psychotropic substances and unaccounted cash worth Rs 305 crore in Punjab since the model code of conduct came into force in the state with the declaration of assembly elections on January 8, according to state Chief Electoral Officer S Karuna Raju. 

The seizure was made till January 30. Raju said the surveillance teams have seized 26.64 lakh litres of liquor worth Rs 12.11 crore. Similarly, the enforcement wings have also recovered psychotropic substances worth Rs 273.13 crore besides confiscating unaccounted cash worth Rs 18.48 crore.

‌Goa : Goa Chief Electoral Officer Kunal : We're ensuring no padayatra, procession, or roadshow. So far, Goa's total seizure stands at Rs 10.13 crores, of which cash seizure is at Rs 6.30cr, liquor worth Rs 2.44cr, drugs worth Rs 1cr & balance is freebies &metal items.

‌Uttarakhand : Congress was against creation of Uttarakhand: Senior BJP leader Ramesh Pokhriyal Nishank.

‌Many rebels from both Bharatiya Janata Party and Congress withdrew their nomination on Monday as party veterans managed to persuade them to withdraw in support of the party's official candidates ahead of Uttarakhand polls, said sources. As per Joint Chief Electoral Officer Pratap Singh Shah, around 95 candidates from 70 assembly seats withdrew their names on the last date for withdrawal of nomination which was Monday.
‌
‌UP :  After a video of Bulandshahr Sadar BJP candidate, dancing with large number of his supporters; Election Commission issues notice to  for  alleged violation of Covid health guidelines.

‌BJP puts Union minister S P Singh Baghel from Mainpuri's Karhal Assembly constituency to take on Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav in Uttar Pradesh assembly polls.

‌Manipur : The exodus from the ruling BJP in election-bound Manipur continued with party MLA and retired IAS officer P. Saratchandra, former Minister N. Biren, and a state government PSU's former chief N. Joykumar joining the Congress on Monday. 

‌