By BestMediaInfo Bureau 

Five from India are among the more than 70 creative leaders from 19 APAC countries and regions to be selected by The One Club Asia to serve as judges for the One Asia Creative Awards 2022.

After years of running The One Show Greater China, the club expanded the scope of the awards last year to include all of Asia Pacific as One Asia.  Entries were received from 17 countries and regions in APAC, with winners representing 14.  

The confirmed One Asia 2022 juries to date from India are as follows:

Design, Print & Out of Home, Print & Out of Home Craft

Santosh Padhi, CCO, Wieden+Kennedy India, Mumbai

Sonal Chhajerh, ECD, Leo Burnett, Mumbai

Direct Marketing, Creative Effectiveness, Innovation; Integrated 

Melvin Jacob, ECD, Famous, Bengaluru

Branded Entertainment; Public Relations, Public Service & CSR, Social Media

Aarti Srinivasan, ECD, BBH Mumbai

Experiential & Immersive, Digital Craft, Gaming, Interactive, Online & Mobile

Deepali Nayar, CD, Publicis Sapient, Gurugram

The complete list of One Asia 2022 juries can be viewed here. 

Entries are now being accepted, with fees increasing after each deadline period. The regular deadline is August 19, 2022, and the final deadline is September 16, 2022. 

Eligible countries and regions for One Asia are Australia, Bangladesh, Bhutan, Brunei, Cambodia, Mainland China, East Timor, Hong Kong, India, Indonesia, Japan, Korea, Laos, Macau, Malaysia, Maldives, Mongolia, Myanmar, Nepal, New Zealand, Pakistan, Papua New Guinea, Philippines, Singapore, Sri Lanka, Taiwan, Thailand, and Vietnam.

Online judging will take place in October, with finalists announced in November. Gold, Silver and Bronze winners will be announced in late November.  

Starting this year, One Asia is now part of The One Club’s Global Creative Rankings for 2023. One Asia awards won by agencies and brands will now gain them international recognition in their own right, and contribute as appropriate to network and holding company global rankings totals.

Read the full story:- https://bestmediainfo.com/2022/08/five-from-india-named-to-jury-for-one-asia-creative-awards-2022