By BestMediaInfo Bureau 

News18 Network has launched News18 Jammu/Kashmir/Ladakh/Himachal on the 75th anniversary of India’s Independence.

With the launch of this channel, News18 Network is now available in 18 languages, with the addition of Dogri, Kashmiri and Ladakhi to its bouquet.

The brand new channel was launched by Lieutenant Governor, Jammu & Kashmir, Manoj Sinha from The Lalit Grand Hotel, Srinagar on Monday.

Speaking at the launch of News18 Jammu/Kashmir/Ladakh/Himachal, Sinha said, "The launch of News18 Jammu, Kashmir, Ladakh and Himachal by Network18 is a massive achievement for the entire media fraternity of the country. I wish you a huge success for this new channel. I welcome the initiative of Network18, of reaching the people of this region via their new channel."

With News18 Jammu/Kashmir/Ladakh/Himachal, News18 group has become the first national news network to have a dedicated news channel from the region.

Coinciding with historic celebrations for 75 years of the nation’s independence, News18 Jammu/ Kashmir/ Ladakh/Himachal will bring to the region the rigour in reporting and innovation in programming that typifies the country's leading news network.

The channel’s programming will be diverse and cater to the entire region with dedicated bulletins in the local language and will have on-ground presence of reporters from across the regions of Jammu & Kashmir, Ladakh and Himachal Pradesh. The state-of-the-art studio, engaging graphics and impactful show packaging will bring a world class news viewing experience – heralding a new era in news television in the region.

The editorial functions will operate from multiple locations such as Srinagar, Jammu, Leh and Shimla. The channel will become the voice of the people, covering their aspirations, issues and achievements.

The channel will also emphasise on the coverage of local economy, thriving sports and tourism ecosystem, regional culture, along with the ever evolving socio-economic and political landscape in the region.

Read the full story:- https://bestmediainfo.com/2022/08/news18-network-launches-news18-jammukashmirladakhhimachal