Pierre Poilievre’s landslide win of the Conservative Party of Canada leadership demonstrates not only his well-run campaign but suggests a newly unified party and an appealing platform.
Poilievre’s victory is striking for its uniformity and scope. Winning the first-ballot support of more than two-thirds of Conservative Party members, the candidate received a plurality of votes in 330 of Canada’s 338 federal ridings.
Jean Charest, his closest competitor, placed a very distant second with only 16 per cent of the first ballot’s points and a plurality of votes in just eight ridings.
Poilievre’s win, compared to the results of previous CPC contemporary leadership races, was unprecedented in terms of membership-wide voting processes.
In contrast to 2017 and 2020, when winners only emerged after several ballots, Poilievre’s victory is reminiscent of Stephen Harper’s 2004 leadership win with 69 per cent of the first round’s popular vote. Ultimately, despite perceptions of a sharply divided party, Poilievre’s success suggest those divisions have been overcome.
Strong ground game
Much of Poilievre’s success is due to the effectiveness of his campaign’s ground-game organization in spreading his message and mobilizing supporters. His campaign not only featured a substantial social media prescence and well-attended rallies, but broke records in fundraising and memberships sold. As with the final results, his closest competitors dragged far behind.
This is important for what it says about the support of existing Conservative members and elites. This had been made clear by several endorsements, including Harper’s. The former prime minister had not publicly supported any candidate in the prior two races.
That helped to further legitimize the strength of Poilievre’s appeal and provided further assistance to the campaign’s organizational effectiveness.
What accounts for this widespread success, and what does it mean for the future of the Conservative Party? Poilievre’s appeal hasn’t just appealed to committed Conservative partisans, it’s also generated a degree of excitement among voters with no prior conservative leanings — especially young people.
Read more: https://theconversation.com/what-pierre-poilievres-leadership-means-for-the-future-of-the-conservative-party-189845