01: Ukraine is going through a tough time and our prayers are with the country and its citizens. With a history of more than 1000 years, the country is noted for its rich culture and tradition and is home to seven UNESCO World Heritage Sites.Let’s find out more about these incredible heritage sites of Ukraine:

02: St. Sophia Cathedral and Kyiv-Pechersk Lavra

Situated in Kyiv, the capital city of Ukraine, Saint Sophia Cathedral is an architectural marvel! This monument is quite ancient and is an important landmark in the city. The cathedral is also important because it was the first UNESCO World Heritage Site in Ukraine along with the Kyiv Cave Monastery complex.

03: Wooden Churches of the Carpathian Region

The Wooden Churches of the Carpathian Region (spread in Poland and Ukraine) boasts of 16 wooden churches displaying a horizontal log construction. Among these, eight are in Ukraine. These churches from the 16th to 19th centuries, are set in secluded parts of the Carpathian Mountains. These were enlisted as a UNESCO World Heritage List in 2011.

04: Beech Forests of the Carpathians

This is a set of some 78 forests that are spread across 18 European nations and among these 12 (nearly 25%) are in Ukraine. These are ancient and primeval forests steeped deep in legends and mysteries are absolutely unique!

05: Struve Geodetic Arc

It’s basically a chain of survey triangulations stretching from Hammerfest in Norway to the Black Sea. The chain was first used by Friedrich Georg Wilhelm von Struve (a German-born Russian scientist) between 1816 and 1855 to set the absolute size and shape of the earth. The first point of the Arc is set in Tartu Observatory in Estonia.


06: Residence of Bukovinian and Dalmatian Metropolitans

Another prominent UNESCO heritage site in Chernivtsi, Ukraine, this is basically a university campus. It is famous because it resembles a medieval castle in the city. The entire place looks otherworldly after getting covered in snow! The building was declared a UNESCO World Heritage Site in 2011.