Francesco Colonnese rates Inter Milan defender Alessandro Bastoni as the best Italy has.

Bastoni scored one and created the other in Sunday's 2-1 win against Lazio.

A product of the now-respected Atalanta academy, Bastoni had actually joined Inter for a big £28 million fee back in the summer of 2017 after he had impressed for La Dea’s first-team and Primavera team in the same campaign, briefly plying his trade under Gian Piero Gasperini. Inter loaned him back to the Gewiss Stadium-based club, where his status remained quite the same,best Italy has.

Alessandro Bastoni was born in Casalmaggiore, Italy. Coming from a footballing family, it always seemed likely that Alessandro would follow a similar path to his father Nicola Bastoni, who played in Serie B with Cremonese

On Alessandro Bastoni, former Italy U21 coach Di Biagio said: “It was difficult to make a mistake with him, today I think he is among the best defenders in Europe for defensive qualities and in the setting phase. He will be a leader of the national team for a long time."

The Lombardy-born center-back’s determination to reach the heights of senior football matches that of his playing style. A committed defender with an excellent read of the game, Alessandro Bastoni is developing into a top-class center-half.

The Italian resembles that of the more modern-style defenders, strong on the ball, confident passer and positionally fluid.

 

What makes Bastoni the most promising center back

For his age, he is incredibly intelligent and he shows this in his positioning. He also is strong and aggressive in the way he defends but the real quality comes when he is on the ball. He defends on the front foot and in doing this, he offers quality in possession and he has a superb range of passing. 

 

He has the intelligence to see danger, break position, make the tackle and then go on the offensive. His pace allows him this but it also allows him to keep pace with most forwards that come at him. His ability on one on ones is perhaps not talked about enough.

Follow the link:
https://link.medium.com/iiUd4jSqsnb