Youth power should introduce their talents to take the nation on zenith: Sandeep Singh
 
Achievers shared the mantra of success with the local youth at Youth Conclave

Chandigarh, The youth power of the country can be helpful in building a progressive nation by effectively applying their capabilities in their field. This sentiment was expressed by the Sports Minister of Haryana Government - Sandeep Singh during the Youth Conclave 2022 organized by youth body - Contribution Smart City at Tagore Theater, Sector 18 on Thursday. He inspired the youth that India holds a leading position in youth population and now the time has come for the youth to introduce their talent to the international level.

While welcoming the delegates at the conclave, the convener of the event and young entrepreneur Vikram Bawa said that the objective of organizing this event was to invite youth talent from every corner of the country and share the key to success among the local youth.

Young singer Abhilipsa Panda from Odisha inspired the youth to show their talent in the field of music and art. Abhilipsa, who became famous with the song Har Har Shambhu, in her address emphasized that the field of music/art and youth go parallel but for this one has to climb the stairs of success through regular 'Riyaaz' asceticism.

Chandigarh Police SSP Kuldeep Singh Chahal, in his address, attributed the crime not only to the growing unemployment among the youth, but also with an intention to create quick money. Citing criminals belonging to a good family like Lawrence Bishnoi, he said that only unemployment cannot be blamed in the country, but youth who are ambitious towards achieving absolute luxury is a big reason.

 Earlier, a drama troupe of local artists - Parampara Arts organized a theatrical stage showcasing the aspects of self-employment among the youth, which was highly appreciated by the audience.

During the program, young entrepreneur Gurinder Bhatti and young journalist Rajshree Thwait, also shared the basic mantras of success in their respective fields in front of the audience.