I would like to draw your attention to the attacks on minorities in India more specifically Christians, since I am one and that too, a roman catholic. I have always been taught to love thy neighbour as to love thy self, as that is the word of the lord. 

Do you know that in India, there are far-right Hindu-nationalist goons who have attacked churches and vandalised them right before Christmas last year.  (You can check this out here: https://theprint.in/theprint-essential/church-vandalised-school-stormed-xmas-disrupted-these-are-8-attacks-on-christians-since-oct/790764/)

Moreover, in 2021, as many as  486 anti-Christian attacks took place in many parts of the country. "There are those in the Sangh Parivar who think that the same can happen in our state. But unlike other states, they know that drastic action will be taken here," said Kerala CM Pinarayi Vijayan in Kochi, according to ANI. (https://aninews.in/news/national/general-news/486-anti-christian-attacks-took-place-in-india-last-year-hunt-is-on-pinarayi-vijayan20220528050835/)

In Pakistan, minorities like Hindus, Christians, Ahmaddiyas, and Shiites are frequently harassed and persecuted. According to an Indian News Agency ANI, in May this year, Fourteen armed men attacked a Christian school in Sheikhupura city in Pakistan's Punjab province and demanded extortion money from the principal of the school as well as issued death threats if the school authorities failed to make payment.

In China, according to the 2021 Report on International Religious Freedom, Christians, Muslims, Tibetan Buddhists, and Falun Gong practitioners reported severe societal discrimination in employment, housing, and business opportunities in China.

Also, as per the the annual report of The Church of Almighty God (CAG), authorities arrested more than 11,156 of its members and subjected them to abuse resulting in the death of at least nine individuals.

And these are just to name a few. While there have been alleged reports of forced conversion by Christian Missionaries, first of all, they are not christians, they are evil people who use christianity as means to manipulate people, and that is not something christian people do. 

These people need to be called out.  Since you mentioned "So as far as persecution of Christians goes, they are the ones who are persecuting people around the world", let me remind you a country  invades  country and not religions.