Vice President Kamala Harris has announced a plan that's intended to end racial and ethnic discrimination in the appraisal of home values.

The plan is part of a broader federal effort to address a wealth gap that systemic inequality has perpetuated.

On the centennial of the Tulsa Race Massacre, President Biden announced the creation of a federal interagency task force to address systemic devaluations of homes and predominately Black and brown neighborhoods. The PAVE (Property Appraisal and Valuation Equity) task force headed by HUD Aecretary Marcia Fudge and White House Domestic Policy Advisor Ambassador Susan Rice set out on a six-month mission to determine root causes of appraisal discrimination and develop solutions.

Vice President Harris announced the PAVE action plan at the White House Wednesday. She offered remarks on the plan as the White House hosted affected families to share their stories of appraisal discrimination.

"We've heard the stories of people who have tried everything to avoid an unfair appraisal, stories like that of Tenisha and her family," Vice President Harris said in her opening remarks.

The Austin family from Marin City were among the families invited to the White House.

Many will recall the Austin family's story of their home being undervalued by nearly $500,000.

The Black family's home value went up when they took down family photos and artwork, before having a white friend stand in for them in a subsequent appraisal.

"I'm telling my family's story because I know appraisal bias is holding African Americans back from growing and supporting their families in a way that we want to and deserve to," said Tenisha Tate-Austin as she welcomed VP Harris to the stage.

Among the 21 steps in the plan is a legislative proposal to modernize the governance structure of the appraisal industry. Appraisers help to determine the value of a home so buyers can receive a mortgage.

The plan also calls for the task force to issue guidance and implement new policies to improve the reconsideration of value processes if the initial valuation of a home by an appraiser is lower than expected. HUD will require FHA lenders to track usage and outcomes of ROVs.