President Ram Nath Kovind is set to retire on July 18 and the polls to elect his successor will be held on July 18.

This will be the 16th Presidential election. 

The notification for the election will be issued on June 15, the last date for nomination is scheduled for June 29, while the polls to be held on July 18. The counting of the votes, if needed, shall be done on July 21.

The President of India is elected by the members of the electoral college, consisting of elected members of both Houses of Parliament and elected members of the legislative assemblies of all states, including the National Capital Territory of Delhi and the Union Territory of Puducherry. However, the Union Territory of Jammu and Kashmir will be the only exception as it is at present under President's rule and does not have an assembly. 

Altogether, 776 parliamentarians and 4,033 legislators will vote in the election. The total vote value of legislators is 5,43,231 and that of MPs -- 5,43,200. So there will be 4,809 electors with a vote value of 10,86,431.

The new President will take oath on July 25.

In 2017, the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) had zeroed in on Kovind, a Dalit from Uttar Pradesh and then Governor of Bihar, for the country's highest office. 

Following the election, held on July 21, Kovind became the 14th President of India, defeating opposition candidate Meira Kumar, also a Dalit and the former Lok Sabha, with 65.65 per cent of the totalled 702,044 electoral college votes.

It is not yet clear if the BJP will give him a second term. So far, only Rajendra Prasad had got two terms as the President of India. 

Though the BJP has maintained that it will go for a consensus candidate, the Opposition is keen to put up a fight. 

Some time ago, there was a talk of the opposition fielding veteran leader Sharad Pawar as its consensus candidate and seek the BJP's support but there has not been any forward movement in that regard. 

The Rajya Sabha polls on Friday are also very important for the presidential elections.