1. Reply 1988
Growing up in the same neighborhood, childhood friends Sung Deok-sun, Sung Sun-woo, Ryu Dong-ryong, Kim Jung-hwan, and Choi Taek develop an unbreakable bond. The kids of Ssangmundong have been watching movies together since forever and are constantly crashing each other’s homes. While they’re no stranger to petty arguments, they’ve sworn to watch out for each other when caught up in moments of mischief and distress in their lives, set in the turbulent year of 1988.

2. Hospital Playlist
Catching each other sneak out of a student gathering back in their pre-med years, it’s no secret Yulje Medical Center’s top-tier doctors, Lee Ik-jun, Ahn Jeong-won, Chae Song-hwa, Kim Jun-wan, and Yang Seok-hyeong all met by accident in a small stock room. Twenty years down the line and their strong bond hasn't changed a bit. As they fight through busy hospital shifts and life-changing events as adults, they continue to stay present in each other’s lives by means of small gestures and setting their weekends for band sessions just like they did back in the day. 

3. Welcome to Waikiki
Despite having varying skill sets, backgrounds, and personalities, aspiring film director Kang Dong-gu, eccentric actor Lee Joon-ki, and freelance writer Bong Doo-shik come together to open the Waikiki Guesthouse in hopes of paying off the production costs of their upcoming film. Seeing as this hilariously misfit bunch have no clue how to run their own business, their wacky antics and ridiculous shenanigans will definitely have you belly-laughing in no time.

4. Because This Is My First Life
Homeless Yoon Ji-ho just so happened to be looking for a new home when house poor Nam Se-hee began her search for a housemate. Connected by a mutual need, a close friendship grows between the two as soon as they start to live under the same roof. While the show is set up to develop them romantically, it also features the strong bond between Ji-ho and her two high school friends, Soo-ji and Ho-rang. The trio help each other navigate the adult world while managing to keep their unconditional love for each other intact.