Remembering Battle of Saragarhi: Rajya Sabha MP Vikramjit Singh Sahney donates Rs 50 lakh for Saragarhi memorial renovation
Rajya Sabha member from Punjab Vikramjit Singh Sahney has urged Prime Minister Narendra Modi and education minister Dharmendra Pradhan to include a chapter on the Saragarhi battle as part of curriculum in all Indian languages to teach the students about this unparalleled and exemplary struggle.
Paying tributes to the sacrifices of 21 brave Sikhs in the Saragarhi battle on its 125th commemoration day on Tuesday, he said their bravery cannot be summed in words. “But still, we can contribute to the sacrifices of those soldiers.”
On the occasion, Sahney announced Rs 50 lakh from his MPLAD (Members of Parliament Local Area Development) fund for renovation, beautification and development of the Saragarhi memorial at Ferozepur in Punjab.
He also announced plans to set up a replica of the original monument of the Saragarhi battle in the national capital. 
The Battle of Saragarhi was fought between the British and the Afghans. On September 12, 1897, an estimated 12,000-24,000 Orakzai and Afridi Afghan tribesmen attacked the British outpost at Saragarhi. As many as 21 Sikh soldiers, led by Havildar Ishar Singh, refused to surrender and fought valiantly till their last breath. The post was recaptured two days later by another British Indian contingent.
All the 21 Sikh soldiers were posthumously awarded the Indian Order of Merit, which was the highest gallantry award that an Indian soldier received that time. The Indian army’s 4th battalion of the Sikh Regiment commemorates the battle every year on September 12 as the Saragarhi Day.
In his address, Uttarakhand Governor Lieutenant General Gurmeet Singh said the Sikhism has taught the people their services towards the nation and the society.
“The world should learn Humanity from Sikhs. It becomes our duty to make everyone across the globe aware of the brave Saragarhi battle. We all should learn from this battle,” he added.
Former army chief General JJ Singh said this battle was an epitome of valour, courage and display of fearlessness. “It is a lesson for all leaders at every level. Nishan Sahib was there at the fort of Sarahgarhi,” he said.
The Nishan Sahib is a Sikh triangular flag made of cotton or silk cloth, with a tassel at its end. The word Nishan Sahib means exalted ensign, and the flag is hoisted on a tall flagpole outside the Gurdwaras.
