Umar Patek — who was jailed for 20 years over his role in the 2002 Bali bombings — has been given a further five-month reduction to his sentence as part of Indonesia's Independence Day celebrations. 

He was one of 16,659 prisoners in East Java who received a reduction in their prison terms.

Australian Prime Minister Anthony Albanese said the decision would add to the "distress and trauma" of victims' loved ones coming up to the 20th anniversary of the attack that killed 202 people, 88 of them Australians. 

Here's what we know.

Who is Umar Patek?

Patek was accused of being the expert bombmaker for Jemaah Islamiyah (JI), a South-East Asian terror network linked to Al Qaeda.

Evidence in his 2012 trial suggested former Al Qaeda leader Osama bin Laden gave JI $30,000 to wage jihad and Patek might have met him in a Pakistani town, a claim Patek repeatedly denied.

He went into hiding after the bombings, being on the most-wanted terrorist list in several countries, with the US offering a $1 million bounty for his head. 

Patek was eventually captured in Abbottabad, Pakistan, in 2011 and extradited to Indonesia. 

On top of his conviction over the Bali bombings, he was also found guilty of weapons and conspiracy charges over a terrorist training camp in Aceh in 2009, and for mixing explosives for a series of Christmas Eve attacks on churches in 2000.

Why was his sentence reduced?

Indonesian authorities say he's been deradicalised. 

Patek reportedly told Indonesian newspaper JawaPos he was committed to assisting the Indonesian government in deradicalisation programs.

"Because, so far, I think radicalism still exists," he said.

"It can exist anywhere, in any region or country. Because the roots are still there."

He said he had been active for the past eight years in deradicalisation programs organised by prisons, Indonesia's National Counter Terrorism Agency and other institutions.

In 2015, Major General Agus Surya Bakti — who led the Indonesia's deradicalisation efforts through its anti-terrorism agency — spoke of Patek's success in the program. 

"It's an extraordinary thing," he said. 

Read the full story
https://www.abc.net.au/news/2022-08-19/umar-patek-jailed-over-bali-bombings-sentence-reduced-parole/101349662