Our pick of what's happening in Canberra this weekend.

1. Steven Oliver

You might know Steven Oliver, from ABC's Black Comedy. Or perhaps from hosting Faboriginal on SBS. But his talents don't end there. Get ready for a bit of a rap, a bit of a sing and a bit of a tap in Bigger and Blacker. With his good pal Michael Griffiths on keys and harmonies, Oliver makes his Canberra debut with this acclaimed show that has dazzled audiences all around the country. Thursday to Saturday, 7pm. Belco Arts Centre. 

2. Suitcase Rummage

This mini-scale market promises giant rewards. The Suitcase Rummage is all about bringing a suitcase (or two) filled with your goods to sell, or heading along to hunt out some real beauties, whether that be vintage, artwork, bric-a-brac, clothing, books, jewellery, seconds, hand-made, shoes, records, music, badges, cards or handmade paper. This weekend's rummage is part of Play Outside Day at Haig Park. 

3. Stir-fried Science 

Want to debate the newsworthiness of black holes? Or apply Schrodinger's theory to ringing doorbells? Perhaps you would like to see how a plant biologist might serve you as a florist, or philosophise about the nomenclature used on your cafe menu? Stir-fried Science, directed by Margie McCrae, sees three performers play a variety of characters in comic sketches, with different guest scientists. Guests come from a myriad of sciences. 

4. My Cousin Vlad 

Following up his sold-out national tour, People Are Gonna Lose It in 2021, My Cousin Vlad has taken a year to prepare something even bigger and even more shredded. So big that people have already lost it over this latest show. 

5. Aunty Donna 

Comedy trio Aunty Donna has been issued a challenge from Magical Dead Cat and this week you can see if they can succeed. At what, you ask? After seeing the Netflix sketch show, Aunty Donna's Big Ol' House of Fun, the Magical Dead Cat issued Aunty Donna a challenge: to entertain him with a 70-minute live show. Thursday to Saturday, 8pm. Canberra Theatre Centre.