1. Fruits and vegetables
 Veggies and fruit load in a lot of nutritional density per bite. Bananas and sweet potatoes deliver potassium, a key mineral for heart health. Cruciferous veggies may help to prevent clogged arteries. Leafy greens deliver fiber, which can help to lower cholesterol and blood pressure. 

2. Whole grains
whole grain products, deliver fiber, which we've already mentioned as a heart health booster. 

Plus, they often come packed with vitamins and minerals like iron, selenium, thiamin, riboflavin , niacin , folate and magnesium. If you're looking for a heart-healthy diet, choose products that have whole grains in their ingredient list. Plus, complex carbs can also be found in beans, potatoes, peas and corn.

3. Lean and plant protein
While certain proteins -- like red and processed meat -- can be hard on your heart, others top the list of foods for heart health. The key here is to look for plant-based protein, lean animal proteins and fish. Experts recommend mixing up your protein sources. So you have plenty of options, stock up on:

Lentils
Beans
Nuts
Seeds
Tofu
Fish, especially ones high in omega-3 fatty acids
Eggs
Low-fat dairy products
Poultry
Seeds

4. Healthy fats
You might think that fat spells heart trouble, but it's all about the type of fat. While trans and saturated fats have been linked to cardiovascular issues in numerous studies, your body, including your heart, needs healthy fats. You can get these from fish, nuts and seeds, along with avocados and moderate amounts of plant oils like:
Olive oil
Sesame oil
Sunflower 
Soybean oil
Canola oil
Corn oil
Safflower oil

5. Heart-check foods
The American Heart Association has certified certain foods for heart health and given them the Heart-Check seal, which you can find on some food packaging. Once you learn that seal, it can make it easier to stock your cart with foods for heart health. 

For the best results, pair your heart-healthy diet with other heart health boosters like regular exercise, sleep and stress management techniques. It can also be helpful to learn your blood type and what it means for your risk of specific cardiovascular conditions.