Joe Biden attracted criticism from both progressives and Republicans after a report indicated the White House was planning a visit to Saudi Arabia to discuss global oil supply.

Axios reported on Sunday that Biden’s senior advisers were considering a spring trip to Saudi Arabia in an effort to improve relations and to propose a potential increase in oil exports. The Biden administration did not confirm. The White House did not respond to a Guardian request for a comment.

The report comes as the US and its western allies consider banning imports of Russian oil in response to the invasion of Ukraine. The White House had dismissed a ban, out of concern for how it would limit oil supply and further drive up gas prices which have already hit a 14-year US high.

But the secretary of state, Antony Blinken, indicated on Sunday that the west is warming to the idea of a ban on importing Russian oil.

“We are now in very active discussions with our European partners about banning the import of Russian oil to our countries, while of course, at the same time, maintaining a steady global supply of oil,” Blinken told NBC.

A ban on Russian oil imports would have a substantial impact on the US and allies, particularly European nations. In 2019, Russia provided 41% of natural gas imports to European Union countries.

If another oil-producing nation like Saudi Arabia or Venezuela started exporting more to the US and the EU, such shipments could help fill the gap created by a Russian ban. According to reports, Biden administration officials flew to Caracas on Saturday to discuss easing sanctions on Venezuelan oil.

But such attempts to find other oil suppliers sparked outrage among some lawmakers. Ilhan Omar of Minnesota, a member of the “Squad” of progressives in the US House, accused Biden of turning a blind eye to Saudi Arabia’s alleged war crimes in Yemen.

“Our response to Putin’s immoral war shouldn’t be to strengthen our relationship with the Saudis who are currently causing the worst humanitarian crisis on the planet in Yemen,” Omar said in a tweet.

“Yemenis might not matter to some geopolitically but their humanity should. This is [a] wildly immoral act.”