As one of the oldest cities in America, there is no shortage of things to do in NYC. Take for instance the area surrounding Westgate New York Grand Central conveniently located in Tudor City in Midtown Manhattan. Just steps away are the United Nations, Tudor City Greens, a plethora of historic bars and the transportation hub that is Grand Central Station which connects you to all of the exciting things to do outside NYC.

History buffs rejoice! Let's take a journey to the 10 Historical Landmarks in NYC You Have to See!

1 | Federal Hall | Come walk the halls of the site where George Washington took the oath of office as our nation’s first president! Federal Hall National Memorial, located on Wall Street, was also home to the first Congress and first Supreme Court. One of the most interesting exhibits on site is the Washington Inaugural Gallery, where you can see the very bible that Washington used to swear in as president, as well as a stone slab from the balcony he stood on that day in April 1789.

2 | Grand Central Station | As New York City grew throughout the 1800s, it needed a transportation hub fitting for the bustling city bursting at the seams with culture, industry and innovation. The grandeur of Grand Central Terminal became the perfect landmark to welcome long-distance railroad travelers to the city. 

3 | Empire State Building | This art deco skyscraper is one of the most recognizable buildings in NYC and around the world! It was the world’s tallest building from its completion in 1931 until the opening of the World Trade Center in 1970.

4 | Fraunces Tavern | Raise a glass to freedom! Among the oldest of New York’s most historic bars, Fraunces Tavern is a must-visit for history buffs in Manhattan as it was once a very popular meeting spot for some of America’s Founding Fathers! 

5 | The Metropolitan Museum of Art | Block out an entire day to explore this expansive art gallery – it’s the largest art museum in the country! The location on Fifth Avenue opened in 1872 and houses over 2 million pieces in the permanent collection. 