The ball didn’t stop here. NIA was compelled to file another case in the next year (2016) against some individuals of South Indian states including Tamil Nadu and Kerala for entering into a criminal conspiracy to wage war against the Government of India. 8 persons have been charge sheeted so far. NIA has claimed that the accused persons and their associates were working secretly in southern states of India including Kerala and Tamil Nadu with the intention of committing acts prejudicial to the sovereignty and integrity of India, primarily by conspiring to eliminate certain prominent persons and target places of public importance.
 PFI’s nefarious designs were further exposed with registration of another case by NIA under 120B of IPC and   Sections - 18, 18-A, 18-B of Unlawful Activities Prevention Act, 1967 as amended. The cases were registered as three individuals: Sheikh Azhar Al Islam Abdul Sattar Sheikh, Mohammed Farhan Mohammed Rafiq Shaikh and Adnan Hussain Mohd. Hussain- all belonging to PFI, along with their other unknown associates were found to be involved in a conspiracy to identify, motivate, radicalize, recruit and train Indian citizens located both in India and other countries for planning and executing terrorist attacks in India and in other friendly countries. 
The year 2017 didn’t remain aloof and NIA was again compelled to register another case against PFI under Sections 38 and 39 of the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act, 1967 for being members of proscribed terrorist organisation and support to the terrorist organisation Islamic State of Iraq and Syria (ISIS)/Daesh. The case is under investigation. Again in 2019, NIA filed a case for murder of one Ramalingam, in Thanjavur district, on 05.02.2019, by PFI leaders.	
Meanwhile, the National Investigation Agency (NIA) arrested 17 members of the Social Democratic Party of India (SDPI) and Popular Front of India (PFI) in connection with the Bengaluru riots case. The NIA took over the probe related to violence at D J Halli Police station, Bengaluru in August 2020. Till date 187 people with linkage to PFI/SDPI have been arrested so far.
To be continued...