FC Zurich and Arsenal will be up against each other in their opening encounter of the Europa League 2022-23. This will be a Group A match which will be played at the Letzigrund.
Arsenal, PSV, Glimt, and Zurich are the 4 clubs that have been drawn in Group A of the Europa League campaign this season. Zurich don’t have an encouraging record against English teams in European competitions and they have just won 3 of their last 10 matches against English opponents.
Arsenal, on the other hand, have won all of their 6 matches against Swiss opposition till date. However, this will be the first meeting between Arsenal and Zurich across all competitions. Arsenal boasts a 75% win record in UEFA Europa League group fixtures.
FC Zurich vs Arsenal Match Details
Match: FC Zurich vs Arsenal
Date and Time: 08th September, 05:45 pm UK, 06:45 pm Local, 10:15 pm IST
Venue: Letzigrund
FC Zurich vs Arsenal Probable Playing XI
FC Zurich: Yanick Brecher; Karol Mets, Becir Omeragic, Mirlind Kryeziu; Adrian Guerrero, Nikola Boranijasevic, Blerim Dzemaili, Antonio Marchesano, Ole Selnaes; Donis Avdijaj, Aiyegun Tosin
Arsenal: Matt Turner; Kieran Tierney, Gabriel Magalhaes, Rob Holding, Takehiro Tomiyasu; Albert Sambi Lokonga, Fabio Vieira, Martin Odegaard; Marquinhos, Bukayo Saka, Eddie Nketiah
FC Zurich vs Arsenal Probable Winners
Arsenal have recently been dealt their first major blow this season when they lost at the Old Trafford against Manchester United. They would surely want to make a mark and display their authority over the game and have the squad to do so. Thus, Arsenal should win comprehensively.
Prediction: FC Zurich 0-3 Arsenal
FC Zurich vs Arsenal Live Stream
FC Zurich vs Arsenal will be live-streamed on SonyLIV. Indian fans can also stream the match live on Jio TV. In Switzerland, The match will be televised on CH Media. blue+ subscribers will be able to watch the match online via the website or app. In the UK, BT Sport will broadcast and live stream the games of the Europa League 2022-23 season. 