16 team competition will start on July 6, ending on 31. Final will be at Wembley. Winners will play against the Copa America champions in the first women's Finalissima(date and venue to be announced).


Along with hosts England and defending champions Netherlands, Germany, Denmark, Norway, Sweden, France, Belgium, Iceland, Spain, Austria, Italy, Finland, Switzerland and Portugal will take part in the 13th edition of the competition. Northern Ireland will feature for the first time. 

England hosted the tournament before in 2005. The tournament was supposed to be held in 2021, which was postponed due to Covid pandemic. Russia were qualified but replaced with Portugal due to the Ukraine invasion and subsequent suspension. Spain, France, Netherlands, England, Norway and Sweden are the favorites in the tournament. Germany are the most successful team with 8 titles, winning it consecutively 6 times from 1995-2013. Norway have won it 2 times and were beaten in the final 4 times. They have reached semi finals except in 2017. Sweden won the first tournament in 1984 and failed in the finals of 1987, 1995, and 2001. They beat England in the first edition, who lost again in the final in 2009 are yet to win it. 

In the previous edition, Denmark were the opponents in the final against hosts Netherlands. Holland beat them 4-2. Miedema scored 2 goals, Mertens and Spitse were the other scorers. Nadim and Harder scored for Denmark. England and Austria eere the other semi finalists. England's Jodie Taylor finished as the top scorer with 5 goals, ahead of Holland's Vivianne Miedema(4). Holland's Lieke Mertens was selected as the best player. 

Inka Grings and Birgit Prinz of Germany are the all time top scorers of the tournament with 10 goals. 

Germany, Denmark and Spain are in same group, making it a tough group stage in Group B. England and Norway are expected to progress from Group A while Sweden and Holland from Group C. England are confident after beating defending champions Holland in a warm up match 5-1. Team have never lost a match under Holland coach Sarina Wiegman(13M/11W/2D), scoring 80 goals and conceding just 3.