The Albanese government will reinstate the pandemic leave payment for workers who have to isolate but do not have sick leave, after earlier vigorously defending its ending on budgetary grounds.

Prime Minister Anthony Albanese announced the decision after a national cabinet meeting, which had been brought forward from Monday to early Saturday to discuss the escalating COVID wave.

The leave payment expired on June 30 under a decision by the Morrison government. The Albanese government initially insisted it was time to transition from emergency measures but huge pressure has come over the past week, including from state governments and within the Labor party.

The cost of the extension will be about $780 million, to be shared on a 50-50 basis with the states. The cost for those on temporary visas, for whom the states previously paid, will also be shared.

People can apply for the payment from Wednesday. Eligibility will be backdated to July 1.

Albanese said the change was appropriate given the increasing infection risks from the new variants. “I want to make sure that people aren’t left behind, that vulnerable people are looked after, and that no one is faced with the unenviable choice of not being able to isolate properly without losing an income,” Albanese told a Saturday news conference in Sydney.

He said the health advice was that the new wave is likely to peak next month and then decline

The government is also restoring the crisis payment for people who receive an income support payment or ABSTUDY Living Allowance and who are in severe financial hardship. This will also run until the end of September.

In another change of position, the government will bring in a new temporary telehealth item “so GPs can spend longer with their patients to assess their suitably for oral COVID-19 antivirals”.

Under a decision of the Morrison government which took effect under this government, telephone consultations of longer than 20 minutes ended.

Read more: https://theconversation.com/albanese-government-restores-pandemic-leave-payment-until-september-30-saying-covid-wave-will-peak-in-august-187146