After being ousted by Supreme Court as All India Football Federation (AIFF) president, Praful Patel warned the members in a meeting of the state associations that FIFA can impose a ban on India for third party intervention. India’s apex court recently removed Patel, who was past his tenure for 16 months, and appointed a Committee of Administrators (CoA) to run the federation till the elections are held. While FIFA’s intervention is a certainly a possibility since the governing body of world football doesn’t approve of executive and judicial interference in running the game, the blame for this mess should fall on Patel himself. He delayed elections of AIFF on pretext of legal tangles only for his own benefits. It landed the federation in troubled waters.
Former AIFF general secretary Alberto Colaco described the situation in the best possible manner when he told a national daily: “If we go by earlier precedents, I think there will be a ban for India. If things have come to such a sorry state for the AIFF, it is only because Praful Patel has acted arbitrarily and selfishly for his own benefit.” Patel’s critics say his sole motive to stay well beyond his term was to extend his membership in FIFA council even after 2023. The court, however, has dealt a severe blow to his ambitions.
But again, will FIFA not give a deeper look at the entire situation before proposing a ban on India? After all, the Supreme Court’s action was far more positive than the AIFF, the official custodian of the game in the country. While AIFF stalled elections, the court gave green signals to start the democratic process as always desired by FIFA. Dr SY Quraishi, who is member of the CoA as appointed by the Supreme Court said: “I don't think FIFA would have an objection to this development. After all, holding elections is also a mandate in FIFA. Football elections were long overdue, the erstwhile team had stayed on past it’s tenure and elections were necessary. We hope that FIFA will understand and cooperate.”