Portugal lead the group table ahead of Spain and Switzerland. In league B, Scotland, Serbia, Norway, Israel move to group top with wins. 
Portugal beat Czech Republic 4-0 in their 5th group league match. Diogo Dalot scored a brace as Bruno Fernandes and Diogo Jota completed the score board. Cristiano Ronaldo got attention after suffering from a bleeding nose caused by a collision with the goalkeeper. Also, he gave a penalty away for Czech by handling the ball, which Schick blasted over the crossbar. Napoli left back Mario Rui assisted Bruno Fernandes, while Dalot scored the first goal from a Rafael Leao pass. Bruno Fernandes assisted Dalot for his second goal. Ronaldo, who was allowed to play the full match, connected a corner which was redirected into the net by Jota for his goal. 
Switzerland played confidently against Spain. They didn't allow Spanish players to manipulate the ball, for comfortable passing and possession. Most of the time, they were hard physically, and broke Spain's attack. On the other hand, they scored both their goals from corners. Akanji (21') and Embolo (58') scored for Switzerland. Jordi Alba scored (55') for Spain with a brilliant finish.
In the final group matches, Spain will face Portugal and Czech Republic to play against Switzerland on 28th. 
Mitrovic continued his scoring form in the national fixture too, with a hat trick against Sweden. Lukic scored their 4th goal. Serbia came from behind after Claesson gave Sweden the lead in the 15th minute with a cool finish. Top scorer for his country, Mitrovic now has 49 international goals. A world cup qualified team, Serbia sends a strong message to the teams of group G - Brazil, Switzerland and Cameroon. 
Norway lost to Slovenia but remains on top of the group ahead of Serbia. Haaland gave Norway lead in the 49th minute after a goalless first half, but Sporar equalised for Slovenia. 19 year old striker Benjamin Šeško's try from outside the box went into the net, giving Slovenia first win of the tournament. 
Netherlands vs Belgium, Denmark vs France and Austria vs Croatia are the key matches in the Nations league today. 