With Stranger Thing season 4 vol.2 finally premiering on July 1, we finally got the entire season as a whole with its two concluding chapters, and damn was this a bloody fun ride. 

The Netflix show never really did manage to get back the mystery, thrills, suspense and horror of the first season, going on a downward path since then.

Well season 4 was by far the best season we have had till now, completely managing to outdo season 1. 

Not only does it manage to provide some of the most edge of the seat thrills in the entire show, it is significantly darker and more macabre than all the other seasons combined.

After the first episode, which is basically the only drawback of the whole show because it is boring but necessary, the whole season from episodes two to nine explodes, becoming a relentless bombardment of adventure, full of thrills, mystery, suspense, horror which never lets up. 

Vol.1 left us on a terrific cliffhanger, well vol.2 with its runtime of 4 hours and two ultra lengthy episodes managed to connect all the threads, and do it brilliantly.

The episodes are visually stunning, with some truly brilliant cinematic sequences. Stranger Things lost out on its mystery tag after season 1, well season 4 has helped reclaim it, as the atmosphere here is packed with mystery and terror which the Duffer Brothers have created, nurtured and expanded upon with great care and attention.

Around every corner, darkness, danger and death now linger, with this ominous feeling that something bad is about to happen soon. This feeling is crafted so well thanks to the many darker, thrilling and intimate moments being balanced out by the smaller moments that help this surreal feeling to not only remain, but thrive as well.

If the Duffer Brothers were creatively a bit cash strapped on season 3, then here they have managed to somehow drown in it because this has by far been their best effort, and it is good enough to even make a non Stranger Things fan legitimately care for this show.


Score: 9/10