By Surinder Singh Oberoi

New Delhi: The Sri Lankan crisis has reached another crescendo when hundreds of thousands of protestors have taken over the President's office, Prime Minister's Office, State Broadcast Centre, and many more government buildings. The Sri Lankan army is out of barracks, on the streets along with the paramilitary and police and using teargas shells and firing over the heads of the protestors in which one protestor is killed and dozens injured. Sri Lankan Prime Minister has instructed the military to restore order. Still, the situation remains out of control, and people refuse to leave the streets or powerhouse buildings until Both Gotabaya Rajapakse and Ranil Wickremesinghe resign.

India is watching closely

India is waiting and watching the situation. India so far has taken a cautious and people-friendly approach. After learning lessons in the past, India is not ready to intervene directly despite the demand from some sections of Sri Lankan society. India has concentrated on humanitarian aid, which has crossed around 3.5 billion dollars, including Line of Credit.

India wants the Sri Lankan people to look for a stable interim government that could take decisions and coordinate with the external world. India wants to help in the agriculture and health sectors, but the decision needs to be taken locally by Sri Lankan leadership. To bring back a sense of confidence amongst the population, some analysts suggest a way forward, "payment against work", like the MGNREGA project in India.

India's foreign minister Mr. Jaishankar, speaking to reporters outside the Thiruvananthapuram airport early this week said, "We have been very supportive of Sri Lanka. We are trying to help and are always very helpful where they are concerned. "They are working through their problems right now, so we have to wait and see what they do."

Analysts say India cannot sit on the fence and must do whatever it can for a smooth transition of power in Colombo and a speedy redressal of the leading cause of the Sri Lankan crisis.

Read more
https://www.newsdrum.in/analysis/india-should-be-worried-about-the-ongoing-crisis-in-sri-lanka-59159.html