Over 10 billion doses of Covid-19 shots have been administered across the world, but the milestone hides a bitter reality: roughly 7 out 10 of those vaccines went to people in wealthy countries. More precisely, 54% of the global population of 7.9 bn, residing in 107 wealthy countries – including the US, Europe and China – have got 71 per cent of the vaccines. The poor nations such as India and those in Africa and parts of Asia received just 30 per cent of the shots, even though they are home to nearly half of Earth's people.  

Ironically, while the wealthy nations are ready to jab their citizens with a booster, a third or even a fourth shot, a majority of people in poor countries haven’t yet got their first shots.  

Another facet of vaccine inequality is: the US has administered about 85 million extra shots that is five times of the total doses given in Nigeria, Africa’s most populous nation.   
 
And despite such wide availability of vaccines in the US and Europe there are large sections of people who do not believe the efficacy of vaccines. These anti-vaxxers oppose vaccination and protest against vaccine mandates.
  
Even though the first Covid-19 vaccine was launched 13 months ago, rich countries hoarded vaccines—refusing to share with poor countries. The People’s Vaccine Alliance, a coalition of health experts, activists, aid agencies etc, has found only one in seven Covid-19 doses pledged to low-income countries were actually delivered by the wealthier nations.
  
Such gross vaccine inequality has allowed the virus to thrive and mutate, and prolong the pandemic. Experts say that new variants like Omicron keep arising only because of vaccine paucity in poor countries. Unless the vaccine gap between wealthy and poor nations is immediately closed, the pandemic will linger even if scientists go on developing new and improved shots or their booster doses.  
        
READ MORE:

 https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2022-01-26/more-than-10-billion-vaccine-doses-administered-across-globe

https://www.nytimes.com/2022/01/28/world/covid-vaccines-10-billion-doses.html

https://theconversation.com/covid-19-vaccine-inequity-allowed-omicron-to-emerge-173361