The International Labour Organization (ILO) on Wednesday, in a "rapid assessment" on Afghanistan, warned of increasing unemployment in the country. 

According to ILO, since the fall of the former government in August, the rate of unemployment has been increasing in the country, and so far, nearly half a million people have lost their jobs. The women, according to ILO, have suffered the most. 

ILO said that if the current unemployment trend continues, 900,000 people will lose their jobs by mid-2022. 

"The contraction – a 14 percent loss by mid-2022 – reflects workers pushed out of employment due to the change in administration and ensuing economic crisis as well as restrictions on women's participation in the workplace," the ILO said in a press release. 

According to the ILO report, women's employment has decreased by 16 percent in the third quarter of 2021, and the report said this could reach 28 percent by mid-2022. 

Economists said that if the Afghan assets are not released, the country will be plunged into a more profound crisis.  

"Over 22 million people are struggling with starvation. If the money is not released, it will worsen the catastrophe," said Abdul Naseer Rishtia, an economist. 

The Islamic Emirate said it has been working toward self-sufficiency with the Afghan economy.  

"The private sector should be supported to provide job opportunities and make economic progress," said Inamullah Samangani, deputy spokesman of the Islamic Emirate.   

"The situation in Afghanistan is critical and immediate support for stabilization and recovery is required. While the priority is to meet immediate humanitarian needs, lasting and inclusive recovery will depend on people and communities having access to decent employment, livelihoods, and basic services," said Ramin Behzad, senior coordinator of ILO for Afghanistan. 

According to the ILO, the political change in Afghanistan has devastated critical sectors, including agriculture, the civil service, and the construction industry, which have led to large-scale job losses.