The term 'blue blood' has been used since 1811 to describe royal families and the nobility. Having pale skin was once a sign of higher social standing, showing the royalty and nobility did not need to spend their time outside with the likes of the working class, such as farmers. They could, instead, take their leisure indoors away from the Sun’s rays. This gave them a paler complexion, which made the veins beneath the surface of the skin more visible, showing a blue tint.

Silver (Ag), argentum in Latin, is a mineral that has been known to have natural antibiotic and antibacterial properties. It has been used historically for thousands of years by ancient civilizations to disinfect and treat diseases. It also helps to preserve foods and liquids from contamination. The ancient Greeks and Romans stored perishables in silver vessels. Before the the invention of refrigeration, a silver coin dropped into milk storage would help delay spoilage.

For centuries European royalty exclusively used silver utensils ('born with a silver spoon in her mouth'), plates, goblets and vessels to eat and drink from, and were often called 'blue bloods'.

The term was coined from the characteristic bluish tint of their blood and skin due to minimal traces of pure silver. This was probably magnified with their pale, untanned skin, a sign of aristocracy not having to work outdoors. 

Regular constant use of silverware actually leached ionic and colloidal silver particles into the body. It was noted that this noble class did not become as sick as the less privileged common class that ate from earthenware dishes and used iron utensils, often becoming diseased. However, an excess of silver ion particles deposited in the body causes a condition called 'Argyria', turning skin a permanent blue-grey colour.

Colloidal silver and silver nitrate were commonly prescribed especially in the 1800s until 1938 when penicillin took centre stage. The antibacterial properties in silver successfully treated a long list of ailments, infections, and disease conditions. The widespread use of silver lost popularity with the invention of modern antibiotics.