Unless joy is multiplied as a first step, Peace will remain buried, bolted. 
 
Today, we again are being reminded of the Peace on this globe. Each year the International Day of Peace is celebrated on 21 September. The UN General Assembly comes up with a yearly theme to strengthen the ideals of Peace by following 24 hours of non-violence and a ceasefire.
 
I ponder and ask; do we achieve it? Is Peace even maintained for a day? Most countries trust the UN, but do they observe the ceasefire and believe in non-violence even for half a day?
 
Organizations will unify several events on 21 September 2022, loads of pledges and suggestions, religious discourses and marches around the cities/villages, several pigeons/doves will be made to fly in the sky, and white flags unfurled. 
  
Next week nay next day, we forgot the pledges/resolutions we took on International Peace Day. We will talk about international conflicts like Ukraine, non-international conflicts like Myanmar and Afghanistan, sanctions, around 200 border disputes across the globe, law and order situations, communal riots, gender discrimination, inequality, domestic violence and so on.
 
For me, conflict and tensions have been continuing since the dawn of time. When the mind is crowded and witnesses both internal and external challenges, like human-to-human conflict; human-animal conflict; human-nature conflict, domestic violence, Peace will always remain eluded. 
 
People have thought differently and acted differently from each other. The majority of us are trained in the mindset from an early age. We have always sought our protection and safety through various measures, including arms. We have used muscle and weapons from the stone age to keep evil or enemies away. First, components were made of stones; in medieval times, weapons were improvised and replaced by swords, bows and arrows, and now sophisticated computerized, machine-made weapons that even do not understand emotions.
 
We created geographical boundaries, and now with industrial and artificial intelligence revolution, using every invention that helps humans in the name of safety and Peace to conquer space and Oceans, thus bringing more competition, violence and hate.