The story of coaches and mentors and founders hails from Chak de India, Bigil, Dangal to JHUND as of now and always have been a major success. Dangal is one of my favourites.

The film is based on the Phogat sisters ( mainly about Geeta Phogat and Babita Kumari out of six sisters) and their father Mahavir Singh Phogat who is a former wrestler.

‌The story and film were striking for exploring the sport of wrestling in India, mainly women in wrestling. Sports dramas based on women were less in India in 2016, we had Mary Kom and Saala Khadoos.

‌Geeta Phogat is the freestyle wrestler who won India's first-ever gold medal in wrestling at the Commonwealth Games in 2010. She is also the first Indian female wrestler to have qualified for the Olympic Summer Games.

‌Meanwhile, Babita Kumari won the gold medal in the 2014 Commonwealth Games. She also won silver medals at the 2018 Commonwealth Games and 2010 Commonwealth Games and a bronze medal at the 2012 World Wrestling Championships.

‌The story is about a father realising his daughters have the potential to make his dream come true ( win a gold medal in wrestling at Olympics) and train them vigorously, making them the best. Later Geetha diverts from her father's path and tries something different only to realise her father was right.

‌Dangal gave stunning performances both in wrestling and acting by Fatima Sana Shaikh and Sanya Malhotra. Amir Khan astounded the audience in two looks both of an elderly man and a wrestler. His performance was also excellent in the film.

‌The scenes of wrestling matches are most exciting in the film. The actors who did the younger selves of Geeta and Babita should also be appreciated for their Stellar performances. ( Zaira Wasim and Suhani Bhatnagar).

‌Dangal was a record-breaking commercial success, becoming the highest-grossing Indian film ever and the highest-grossing Indian film of the 2010s, the sixth highest-grossing non-English, non-mandarin film ever and the highest-grossing sports film worldwide.

Amidst the success, Dangal had a problematic representation of parenting and the theory of adults being always true.