Israel government announced it would start an inquiry on Monday after a newspaper reported illegal use of the controversial Pegasus spyware by the country’s police against its own citizens. The list of citizens includes the former Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu’s son and some senior government officials.

Israel’s business daily Calcalist had reported on January 18 that the Israel police used Pegasus spyware, made by the country's tech company NSO, to remotely hack phones of Israeli citizens, to “control them and extract information from them.” The hacking wasn’t done on a court order, and police didn’t request a “search or bugging warrant to conduct the surveillance”, claimed the newspaper. The spyware apparently tracked activists who protested against the former Prime Minister, who is currently on trial for corruption. A key witness on the trial, and quite surprisingly, his son, along with aides, were also spied upon.

Netanyahu is being tried on charges of illegal business with some companies, accepting gifts in exchange for political favors and promoting media companies in exchange for favourable reporting.   

Netanyahu had earlier accused law enforcement of targeting him, but it’s a mystery why phones of his close aides were also targeted. His lawyers appealed to halt the trail until a thorough investigation on the snooping scam is done.   

Naftali Bennett, the current Prime Minister who succeeded Netanyahu in June, instructed some key government officials to open an inquiry into the affair.  

In July last year, a coalition of media organisations and rights groups revealed in an investigation how the spyware was used to track political leaders, journalists and human rights activists in 11 countries. Pegasus is a malware that can switch on a phone’s camera or microphone remotely and harvest its data.   

READ MORE: 

https://www.calcalistech.com/ctech/articles/0,7340,L-3928830,00.html

https://www.aljazeera.com/news/2022/2/7/new-report-alleges-widespread-pegasus-spying-by-israel-police

https://www.dw.com/en/israeli-police-call-for-probe-into-new-pegasus-revelations/a-60683825