We are aware about mental health, the therapies one can get while they are overwhelmed which can alleviate depression and anxiety. But it has a taboo attached to it namely in the American culture and also in many other cultures as well. Depression and anxiety have been common in the U.S and over 20 million adults have experienced one major depressive episode in the last year as per the reports from National Institute of Mental Health. 

According to the experts, when celebrities open up on their own struggles with anxiety and depression it creates a better space for people to speak about their own mental health issues. 

Recently, Shawn Mendes, singer of the hit "Stitches" have announced his break from performing as he would like to focus on his mental health. Through Instagram he made the announcement by postponing three weeks of shows and that touring has led him to "hit a breaking point." 

Mental health stigma 

Mental health is one's emotional, psychological and social well being. It will affect on how we feel and act and will also contribute to how we handle stress and function in our day to day life. 

Exlerts explained that by hiding mental health struggles it can only worsen the condition. 

Allison Forti, PhD, Associate Teaching Professor and Associate Director of the Department of Counseling Online at Wake Forest University in Winston-Salem, North Carolina, said that, “Mental health stigmatization results from lack of awareness, information, and education. Without an understanding of the signs and symptoms of mental health concerns, as well as an understanding of why or how mental health suffers, stigmatization pushes people into hiding that something is wrong and exacerbates suffering." 

Experts says that people in spotlight are being honest about their mental health struggles which can help people break down the stigma.  

“When a celebrity draws attention to their personal struggles with mental health, they spread awareness by providing an example of what mental health challenges psychologically, cognitively, and behaviorally look like,” said Forti. 

Sources - Healthline