1. “Suits”
In the 2018 South Korean remake of the U.S. legal procedural “Suits,” Park Hyung Sik stars as genius rookie lawyer Go Yeon Woo. Despite his low educational background, he manages to get hired at the prestigious Kang & Ham law firm where top lawyer Choi Kang Seok (Jang Dong Gun) works. The series follows Go Yeon Woo’s journey as he grows into a respected lawyer under Choi Kang Seok’s stern but caring mentorship.

2. “Nine: 9 Times Time Travel”
The lead character Park Sun Woo travels back and forth in time in an attempt to prevent tragedy from befalling his loved ones.Park Hyung Sik stars as the younger version of Park Sun Woo from his high school days during the early ’90s, who soon catches on and begins trying to communicate with his adult self.

3. “Strong Woman Do Bong Soon”
The central plot of “Strong Woman Do Bong Soon” revolves around the duo’s pursuit of a serial kidnapper in Bong Soon’s neighborhood, which lands them in a number of sticky situations. Despite their initial petty quarrels and incessant bickering, Do Bong Soon grows closer to Ahn Min Hyuk as he teaches her to control her strength and use it for good, eventually turning into a heart-warming romance.

4. “Heirs"
Park Hyung Sik played a minor but memorable role as Jo Myung Soo, the playful son of a successful law firm CEO. Despite being close with the intimidating Choi Young Do (Kim Woo Bin) and Lee Bo Na (Krystal), he proves to be a loyal and lovable character with a beagle-like personality.

5. “High Society”
Despite her initial refusal to date him, Lee Ji Yi is eventually moved by Yoo Chang Soo’s (park Hyung sik)  sincerity. Although they are the secondary couple of “High Society,” their adorably sweet courtship and chemistry won over the hearts and support of fans as they navigated the hurdles in their relationship.

6. “Happiness”
Trapped in an apartment complex as the world is being swept by a deadly virus causing ordinary humans to develop a taste for blood, the duo fight to protect their neighbors from both the infected and one another.