Kashmir is known as heaven on Earth and is a magnificent destination. In addition to its rich and captivating landscape, Kashmir is also known for its handicrafts. Not just for the region but for the entire country, Kashmir's rich tradition of handicrafts has been a benefit. 

Visitors have a wide selection of Kashmiri handicrafts from which to pick. All of Kashmir's handicrafts, including woodcarving, home décor, and handlooms, are painstakingly made by local artisans 

Kashmir is well known for willow baskets, papermachie, carpets, and shawls, particularly pashmina. The craft of creating these artefacts is being forgotten by Kashmiris. Due to the low pay for this work, no one wants to teach their children this art. The competition from machine made goods has severely hurt this sector.

Efforts are being made to revive the dying cultural handicraft of Kashmir through “Craft Safari”. The world-renowned Kashmiri handicraft, which has helped Srinagar become recognised as a UNESCO Creative City in the category of Craft and Art, is currently being revitalised. The Kashmir handicraft department of the Jammu and Kashmir government has begun a process in a novel approach to revive those renowned, vanishing Kashmiri crafts. 

"A social media influencer named Nasir Ali Khan remarked, "all the artisans whom we met are happy with this step, when we put their stories it on social media, many people started enquiring about them, so many people who are associated with those crafts and arts have started to contact us so that they can be promoted.”

“This will give new life to this dying industry,"Nasir added on

Authorities in Srinagar have begun to work on reviving Kashmir's heritage and culture now that the city is on UNESCO's list of creative cities. The centuries-old handmade Kashmiri craft has already suffered a significant setback and a negative reputation due to the invasion of machine crafts. In order to make it simple to distinguish between handcrafted and machine-made crafts, the department is now functioning online. They have begun GI-tagging handcrafted goods. The handmade craft craftsman and craft are to be strengthened.