The 300 million doses arrive just one day after the Drugs Controller General of India (DGCI) recommended Corbevax for emergency use in children aged 12 to 18 years old, subject to certain conditions.

According to the Business Standard, the Centre will begin receiving its first shipment of 300 million doses of Biological E's Covid-19 vaccine, Corbevax, on Tuesday. 
On August 21, 2021, an order for these doses was placed.

created 250 million doses of Corbevax and planned to finish the remaining dosages in a few weeks. 
The Centre had given a 1,500 crore advance payment to the Hyderabad-based company to buy these doses last year, it claimed.

The 300 million doses arrive just one day after the Drugs Controller General of India (DGCI) recommended Corbevax for emergency use in youngsters aged 12 to 18 years old, subject to specified criteria. 

The two-dose vaccine is likely to receive final approval from the DGCI soon. Official sources told ANI on Monday that the cost of Corbevax, minus taxes, is likely to be around 145 dollars.

The DGCI approved Corbevax for limited usage in adults in an emergency circumstance in December of last year. However, the vaccine is not yet included in the country's ongoing vaccination campaign. 
Corbevax is India's first indigenously created RBD protein sub-unit vaccine against Covid-19, according to the Union health ministry.

It will be the second vaccine to acquire an emergency use authorization for children under the age of 18 following Bharat Biotech's Covaxin. According to the aforementioned sources, Biological E will shortly submit results from Corbevax clinical trials conducted on youngsters under the age of 12.

The Centre has yet to make a decision on whether or not to vaccinate children under the age of 15. 
The authorities have given a total of 6,71,46,854 vaccination doses to children aged 15 to 18 years old thus far. Over 5.21 crore youngsters have received their first dosage, with the remaining 1,50,14,801 receiving their entire vaccination.