1. Jeju Fire Festival- Welcoming Best Of Health & Harvest
This is one of the most famous festivals in Korean celebrated over 3 days in late February and March. The beautiful city of Jeju is set ablaze to pray for and welcome the new year with good health, happiness, and ample harvest. It symbolizes the ancient ritual of burning old grass to get rid of vermin before resuming the next farming season. This is a unique celebration and the sight of the hilly city on fire looks dazzling and stunning. The festival is also celebrated with folk dance, torch march, and tribal games and activities.

Location: Jeju Island

2. Jinju Lantern Festival- Make A Wish
Popularly famed as Jinju Namgang Yudeung Festival, this is one of the oldest festivals in Korea, that showcases the country’s traditions and culture. The native people lit thousands of red lanterns by the bank of Nam River and make wishes for the well-being, health, and prosperity of their near and dear ones. The custom started way back in 1592, iconizing with the custom of lighting lanterns to avoid Japanese troops from commuting the Namgang River during the Japanese invasion period. Hence these lanterns also pay tribute to the Jinjuseong Fortress Battle veterans. Along with the surreal sight of innumerable lit lanterns, one can enjoy the street parades, performances, local street food and even make their own lantern and hang them in the Tunnel Of Wish Lanterns.

Location: Jinju


3. Seongsan Sunrise Festival- Welcoming The New Year
Every year, on the first day, local people hike up to the Seongsan Ilchulbong Peak, locally called Sunrise Peak to witness the first rays of the Sun of the year and wish happiness, health, and prosperity for all. Seongsan Ilchulbong Peak is one of the most beautiful viewpoints of Korea, known for a jaw-dropping view of the surrounding and listed by UNESCO as a World Nature Heritage Site. Seongsan Sunrise Festival commences on New Year’s Eve with a nature trail, torch rally and folk dance and music by local artists and midnight fireworks.

Location: Seongsan Ilchulbong, Sunrise Peak- Jeju