It was 1995 when Everton won the FA Cup against Manchester United, and since then, the club from Merseyside has struggled to replicate its past glories. Also known as the People's Club, and once the top dog of English football, Everton has found it difficult to cope with the evolution of football. To add to their misery, their rivals Liverpool have found their feet under Klopp and have risen to be the superior power in Merseyside. 

In the last five years, Everton has seen six managers take the hot seat at Goodison Park, but none have been able to replicate the feat of Martinez or Moyes. Since their 2004/5 heroics under Moyes, the club has not yet, featured in the UCL. The failure of Everton is solemnly due to substandard recruitment and the hiring of unambitious or obsolete managers. Their recent two managerial appointments are evident of the fact. 

Everton seems to rectify their previous errors with the appointment of Frank Lampard. The Chelsea legend is a true champion and a modern tactician who lays emphasis on possession-based attacking football. The work Lampard did at Derby and Chelsea speaks volumes about the Englishman. In his time at Stamford Bridge, Lampard brewed talents like Mount, James, Tammy, etc, and also led Chelsea to CL football without spending a dime. 

With Lampard, Everton will get a young, ambitious, and passionate personnel, which is the need of the hour at Goodison Park. The Blues have also secured a loan deal for one of the most underrated midfielders in Donny van de Beek, who is hungry to prove a point and secure his position for the World Cup in the summer. Donny was the heartbeat of the Ajax team that sent tremors in Europe, but since he arrived at Old Trafford, the ex-Ajax star has been a victim of favoritism and was let down by the Man United hierarchy. 

Frank Lampard has been a great admirer of the Dutch International since his Ajax days, and Donny's arrival could provide the flair and brains that Everton lack in their midfield. Lampard's appointment marks the beginning of an exciting chapter in Everton's history