A few years ago, a student showed up in my class looking distraught. “I don’t think I can be in class today,” the student told me.

No explanation, no elaboration. Yet I knew from our previous conversations that this student suffered from anxiety and that the previous few weeks had been pretty overwhelming for her. I allowed the student to leave class. When I checked in with her later that day, she said she was feeling a lot better, but was just stressed because of everything on her plate.

As a doctoral candidate studying the sociology of mental health, I have long been worried about the high rates of mental illness and general distress among college students. Based on my review of recent scholarship on these issues – along with guidance from mental health practitioners who work in a college setting – I developed a set of best practices for instructors and others who wish to see college students flourish.

Here are five practices that emerged from my research.

1. Signal support in the syllabus and in class

The syllabus is one of the first opportunities that instructors have to demonstrate their openness and commitment to students’ mental health. Though many universities now require instructors to describe campus resources and accommodations available to students with disabilities, it may also be helpful to include additional language on mental health.

At the very least, instructors can provide information about the student counseling center, including the location, contact information and number of free appointments, if any. For students in online classes, be sure to specify which counseling services are available off-campus and how to access them.

2. Identify at-risk students

study by the Boston University School of Public Health found that 71% of faculty would appreciate some kind of checklist to help them identify students in emotional distress.

3. Question, persuade, refer

If you encounter a student in psychological distress, consider using the well-established “QPR” protocol: question, persuade, refer.

Read full-story at The Conversation: https://theconversation.com/5-ways-college-instructors-can-help-students-take-care-of-their-mental-health-178757

Imagery:
https://www.gettyimages.com/detail/photo/female-college-student-meeting-with-campus-royalty-free-image/1218975597?adppopup=true