5th June 2022, World Environment celebrates with a wow to protect our home - our earth . As the slogan reiterates we have “Only One Earth”. 
The slogan focuses on living sustainably in harmony with nature. 

Universe might comprise of millions of galaxies and those galaxies would have millions of planets but human race only has one planet. No matter what we claim to conquer, the moon or Mars but we won’t be able to sustain anywhere else for even a minute. 
Science fictions might show u dreams of inhabiting other planets but so far we know, we only have Earth to live on. 
The same Earth which today is facing multiple crises from climate change to loss of biodiversity and an increase in carbon emissions. Threats of new diseases.
UNDP which has been leading the campaign since early 70s says Earth is faced with TRIPLE EMERGENCIES. 
1. the climate is heating up too quickly for people and nature to adapt;
2. habitat loss and other pressures mean an estimated 1 million species are threatened with extinction;
3.pollution continues to poison our air, land and water.
#OnlyOneEarth is the campaign for World Environment Day 2022. It calls for collective, transformative action on a global scale to celebrate, protect and restore our planet.

We have to make efforts collectively as countries/societies and as individuals as well. As countries make health of the planet our priority invest in nature friendly transport, buildings , infrastructure. Make sure our green cover is not depleted. Control what we are releasing into our water and air.

As individuals, let’s work with nature in our homes offices. Let’s transform the way we life. 
Did u know, “we are using the equivalent of 1.6 Earths to maintain our current way of life, and ecosystems cannot keep up with our demands.
Our lifestyles are associated with two thirds of all greenhouse gas emissions - studies show that sustainable lifestyles and behaviours could reduce our emissions by 40 to 70% by 2050.”(source UNDP)

We have harmed earth enough it’s time to heal it.