BestMediaInfo bureau

Shashi Sinha, Chief Executive Officer at IPG Mediabrands India, has been unanimously elected as the new Chairman of Broadcast Audience Research Council (BARC India) by the Board following its meeting held on March 25, 2022.

Sinha, who also represents the Advertising Agencies Association of India as its Board member, has played a key role in the formation of BARC. He takes over from Punit Goenka, MD & CEO, Zee Entertainment Enterprises, who served as the Chairman for the last three years.

Sinha is also actively involved in various industry bodies such as the Advertising Standards Council of India (ASCI, Past Chairman of Audit Bureau of Circulation (ABC), Past President of The Ad Club, Current Chairman of Media Research Users Council (MRUC) and till very recently, before becoming a Board member, was the first Chairman of the Technical Committee of BARC India. He is also an honourable member of the Facebook India Client Council.

Sinha said, “I am excited to be given this opportunity as the Chairman of BARC at a time when the industry is undergoing many changes and the measurement body continues to grow. Over the last decade, BARC has evolved to become a robust currency and developed into a strong base for decision making for all stakeholders. I look forward to continuing working with the team at BARC and I am confident that together we will be able to add and bring in more value to the broadcast ecosystem.”

Punit Goenka, MD and CEO, Zee Entertainment Enterprises, added, “It has been a privilege to lead and serve BARC India as the Chairman, for two terms. The organisation has indeed grown and progressed substantially since its inception. I would like to welcome Shashi as he takes the helm of an industry-critical operation in a fast-changing landscape. I am sure that BARC India will soar to newer heights under his guidance. I also wish Nakul and the team at BARC all the very best”.

Read the full story here:- https://bestmediainfo.com/2022/03/shashi-sinha-appointed-as-new-barc-india-chairman/