As anticipation builds across the country and the world ahead of the FIFA World Cup Qatar 2022™, Qatar Foundation (QF) has unveiled the line-up of events and activities that will be taking place at Education City – open for everyone to enjoy, every day.
QF's World Cup campaign – launched today at an event attended by key stakeholders and titled, It's Only Football if it's For All – reflects how the first FIFA World Cup™ in the Middle East and the Arab world will be the most accessible to date, and the organization's own commitment to providing inclusive opportunities for everyone. This will be demonstrated in both the coming weeks and during the tournament, through an array of festivals and activations for the wider community at QF's Education City.
"The FIFA World Cup Qatar 2022TM is all about people, and about bringing people together to enjoy a shared and unforgettable experience – one that everyone can be part of," said Her Excellency Sheikha Hind bint Hamad Al Thani, Vice Chairperson and CEO of QF.
"Placing accessibility and inclusivity at the core of our campaign, It's Only Football if it's For All, reflects our commitment to providing opportunities for everyone to engage in and benefit from, and our support for Qatar's aim of hosting the most accessible edition. Our mission is built around empowering people, and we believe this happens when pathways for involvement, engagement, and discovery are open to all."
H.E. Hassan Al Thawadi, Secretary General, Supreme Committee for Delivery & Legacy, said: "QF is a critical national partner in delivering a successful FIFA World Cup Qatar 2022, with Education City Stadium hosting several games. Throughout our preparation over the last twelve years, QF has played a vital role in many areas including research, development, technology and collaboration on social programs. QF's plans for the World Cup work towards an important ambition for us – ensuring the tournament brings people together and leaves a legacy of accessibility and empowerment for people from all walks of life."