Joe Biden will deploy more than 3,000 US troops in Germany, Poland and Romania, as Russia continues to build up its forces around Ukraine, and after talks between Washington and Moscow failed to ease tensions.

The US is sending 1,700 troops from the 82nd Airborne Division to Poland, a headquarters unit of about 300 from the 18th Airborne Corps will move to Germany and a 1,000-strong armoured unit is being transferred from Germany to Romania.

“This force is designed to deter aggression and enhance our defensive capabilities in frontline allied states. We expect them to move in coming days,” said John Kirby, the Pentagon spokesperson.

The Russian president, Vladimir Putin, “continues to add forces, combined arms, offensive capabilities, even over just the last 24 hours he continues to add in western Russia and Belarus, and in the Mediterranean and the north Atlantic”, Kirby added. “He has shown no signs of being interested or willing to deescalate the tensions.”

The Pentagon spokesperson said the deployments were separate from the 8,500 troops in the US that were put on heightened alert to be ready to deploy at short notice. Those forces are mostly earmarked to be part of a Nato Response Force (NRF) intended to bolster the alliance’s eastern flank in the face of a potential Russian attack on Ukraine.

Kirby said the troops being deployed in the coming days were being sent under bilateral agreements with the host countries.

Nato has so far not taken the decision to activate the NRF, which would require the agreement of its 30 member states, including Hungary, whose prime minister, Viktor Orbán, visited Moscow on Tuesday to offer support for Putin and said sanctions on Russia were “doomed to failure”

European diplomats, however, said that German caution in responding to the crisis was more an obstacle to a rapid activation of the NRF than Hungarian obstructionism.

“Trying to get this done through Nato could take weeks and would only expose all the internal differences” one diplomat said.