Why Mallikarjun Kharge is a safe bet for Gandhis? 
Veteran Congress leader Mallikarjun Kharge is literally the official candidate of the grand old party, including the Gandhis and the group of dissenters or G-23. 
Kharge, 80, is all set to be the next Congress president, replacing Sonia Gandhi who has been at the helm now for nearly 23 years now. She had held the post consecutively from March 1998 to December 2017 and  then from August 2019 to October 2022.
The Gandhis were keen on Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot but the developments in the state on Sunday, the day the leadership had called the Congress Legislature Party (CLP) in Jaipur, forced them to reconsider their move and look for another safe option. 
Gehlot too announced that he will no longer contest the Congress president's election and expressed regret for the incident on Sunday when legislators loyal to him held a parallel meeting to put pressure on the high command to deny any chance to Sachin Pilot to become the chief minister. 
Like Gehlot, Kharge too is a loyalist and close to all the three Gandhis - Sonia Gandhi, Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi Vadra. 
It was at Rahul's insistence that Kharge was named the Congress leader in the Lok Sabha in 2014 after the Bharatiya Janata Party and Narendra Modi humiliated thr grand old party in the Lok Sabha elections that year. 
Despite losing the 2019 Lok Sabha elections, Kharge was brought to the Rajya Sabha and appointed the leader of the opposition in the Upper House of Parliament. His rise has been consistent. 
Perhaps, it seemed the Congress high command was trying to compensate Kharge for denying him the chief ministership of Karnataka in 2013. Siddaramaiah had then forced the leadership to name him the chief minister. 
Kharge will face Shashi Tharoor in the polls but the contest seems mere formality than any serious fight between the two. Interestingly, Tharoor is not even backed by his G-23 colleagues. 
Another senior leader Digvijaya Singh too had decided to throw his hat in the ring but later withdrew after he came to know that the Gandhis were backing Kharge. 