The film centres on Alex, a typical teenager who does typical teenager things, like drinking milk to build strong bones and using crowbars to break strong bones. His family life is stable, so it's unclear where his aggression comes from. Maybe he's born with it. It’s Saturday night and they in the spot. But rather than pop over to the soda fountain, Alex and his lackeys figure why not stage an impromptu home invasion? That puts Alex in a singing mood, but soon the lackeys start pushing to do guest vocals, so Alex has to cut them from the label. Without missing a beat, they betray him and he gets sent to the biggest house of all: jail. Later, the mayor of England comes to the prison looking for test subjects for the Lenscrafters Later, the mayor of England comes to the prison looking for test subjects for the Lenscrafters rehabilitation technique, so Alex says sign me up, Scotty.  Anyway, Scotty forces him to watch a nonstop cycle of detestable images, like war and multicam sitcoms. To add insult to injury, they put drops in his eyes to make him cry like a wuss. The technique works, rendering Alex allergic to anything he liked doing before, and they send him on his merry way. Only his way turns out to be decidedly less merry than previously reported. His parents have traded in for a newer model, so Alex has no choice but to apply for membership in the homeless guild. Unfortunately, the review board has other ideas. So does the fuzz. Alex stumbles his way to the nearest house, where he uses his last ounce of strength to get beat up by gravity. Alex wakes up in the hospital to find that he's got that twinkle back in his eyehole. The mayor of England apologizes for the whole Lenscrafters debacle and promises Alex a cushy job in exchange for being a team player. Hooray, the system works!

A Clockwork Orange explores the idea that free will defines the human experience. Earthlings may have been hopelessly misguided on every conceivable level, but at least it was by choice.