For years, Muslims in North America have struggled to find ways to purchase homes while complying with Islamic law, or shariah. The Qur'an prohibits both the collection and payment of interest. For more than a million Canadians, these religious structures limited access to conventional mortgages.Recently, however, companies such as the Canadian Halal Financial Corporation have emerged to fill this void. The creation of a vehicle in North America to enable Muslims to finance home ownership is part of an emerging global movement in finance.I spent over a year documenting one centre of this global movement in Malaysia. There, the government has sought to create an Islamic Wall Street. It seeks to make the country’s capital, Kuala Lumpur, what one official called the “New York of the Muslim world.”I am continuing my research on Islamic finance at the Counter Currency Laboratory at the University of Victoria, where we study emerging debates on the future of money.The Central Bank of Malaysia has engineered a comprehensive Islamic financial system consisting of a network of banking institutions. They have also fostered an Islamic money market, Islamic capital markets and an Islamic insurance, or takaful, system.Across the country, institutions such as Bank Muamalat, HSBC Amanah and Standard Charter Saadiq, have readily sought to develop this market. Today, Islamic financial institutions aggressively promote shariah-compliant credit cards, home loans, and insurance policies. The government has also sought to spur innovation by opening its borders to competition from Islamic financial institutions based in the Arabian Gulf region.On the streets of Kuala Lumpur, the ubiquity of Islamic banking and finance in the country was hard to miss. Bright advertisements offered consumers credit cards that provided “free takaful coverage, low fees, and no compounding finance charges.”Inside Kuala Lumpur’s massive ultramodern train station, eye-catching advertisements promoted Islamic finance. Al-Rajhi Bank, a Saudi firm that bills itself as the world’s largest Islamic bank. Read more: https://theconversation.com/islamic-finance-provides-an-alternative-to-debt-based-systems-191168