Celebrities are usually the trendsetters. Along with each season’s fashion trends, celebs seem to switch the intake of their food patterns, too. So whether they’re slimming down for a movie role, trying to shed the last few pounds of baby weight, A-listers are counting calories and managing portions by trying all types of diet trends they could.

If you want to know which stars let their blood group dictate their diet, the secret behind Kim Kardashian’s voluptuous figure, or Jennifer Aniston’s slender beach body, there are hundreds of diet trends that will show you the way.

We scouted the latest celebrity diet food trends that you should know about
Zone diet
Created by Dr. Barry Sears, the Zone Diet has been a well-known weight-loss method used by many celebrities.
This diet centers on a 40-30-30 approach, which instructs celebrities to eat 40 percent of their daily caloric intake from carbohydrates, 30 percent from protein and 30 percent from fat. The success of this diet is attributed to the intake of essential amino acids and fatty acids that help control the appetite and burn fat more quickly.
CELEB Followers: Jennifer Anniston, Brad Pitt, Sandra Bullock, Kristen Davis, Cindy Crawford.

Five factor diet
Developed by celebrity trainer Harley Pasternak, this diet has got everything to do with the number “Five”. This five-week plan involves eating five meals daily, using five ingredients per meal (including protein, good fats, healthy carbs, fibre and a sugar-free beverage). Dieters are also supposed to complete 25-minute work-outs, five times, weekly, but are allowed one "cheat day" per week (when you can eat whatever you want).
CELEB Followers: Kate Beckinsale, Megan Fox, Jessica Simpson, Alicia Keyes, Kanye West, Katherine Heigl.

Vegan diet
Some of the high profile celebrities swear by this type of diet which is also starting to gain popularity with the general public. Basically, this diet does not include any foods that are derived from animals. Consisting of fruits, vegetables, grains, and legumes, many of the dieters maintain this type of diet as their overall lifestyle and religious belief. 
CELEB Followers: Bill Clinton, Pamela Anderson, Natalie Portman, Alicia Silverstone.