By Kalim Ahmed

On August 10, Time Now tweeted a video report by journalist Pradeep Dutta. The entire report is shot within the confinement of a mosque where an alleged cleric of the mosque can be seen speaking to a few attendees about the importance of the Indian national flag.

In the seven-minute-long video report, we see the Times Now journalist speak with the alleged cleric as well the attendees, who are very “enthusiastically” listening to the sermons. A total of nine people can be seen in attendance, among which a few of them appear to be senior citizens.

( Link https://twitter.com/TimesNow/status/1557279660932640769?t=buJhHfi0mx3enpX-gs_aEw&s=19)

The same report has also been shot in Hindi as well and was tweeted by Times Now Navbharat on the 10th. In the Hindi report, the Times Now reporter refers to the man as “Maulana“. In this report at the 2:20 minute mark, the reporter asks the man if there’s any external pressure on him or if he’s being forced to raise the flag. To which the man responds by saying that there is no pressure on him at the moment.

( Link https://twitter.com/TNNavbharat/status/1557302789604544512?t=E8Xy5HmejgZFLKxFHIIVjQ&s=19)

This video report has been re-shared twice (here and here) by Times Now Navbharat on August 12.

Analysis of the footage
When one looks at the reportage carefully, the following observations can be made:

1. The reporter is directly at the centre of the story. He narrates as the sermon is being given.

2. He interrupts the event and interviews the alleged cleric and members of the audience. It is odd for a reporter to interrupt a public event while he/she is covering in order to take bytes.

3. The reporter’s conversations with both the alleged cleric and locals comes across as forced, with the reporter leading the conversation.

These elements when seen together portray an uncharacteristic way of reporting a public event.

Local politician, not a cleric
We looked at the comments under the tweets of Times Now. A reply by user Asif Iqbal Butt came to our notice. 

Read the full story here:- https://www.altnews.in/fact-checking-times-nows-dispatch-presenting-a-local-politician-as-a-cleric-of-a-jammu-mosque/