Natural Yellow Sapphire—Gemstone
of the Preceptor of God’s-Jupiter continues....

Yellow Sapphire in Cancer Ascendant

Jupiter is a Key planet for Cancer ascendant and if well placed can bring a lot of gain when its periods are operating. In this ascendant, Jupiter becomes the Lord of the 6th house of diseases etc but the most important point which goes in favour of Jupiter is that it becomes the Lord of the 9th trine house of fate and fortune. 

The 9th house also known as the Dharma Sthana is one of the most auspicious houses in the birth chart. Those individuals in whose charts, Jupiter is posited in the 1st house, 2nd house, 5th house, 9th house, 10th house and 11th house can wear a yellow sapphire birth stone for life. Jupiter in these positions will create very good opportunities for the individual.

Yellow Sapphire in Leo Ascendant

Jupiter becomes an auspicious planet for the Leo Ascendant. It becomes the Lord of the 5th trine house of education, higher knowledge, sudden fame and the 8th house of inheritance and legacy. Those individuals in whose charts Jupiter is posited in the 1st house, 4th house, 5th house, 9th house can wear yellow sapphire birthstones for life. Jupiter in the 10th house, 11th house can be given strength by wearing yellow sapphire stone when its planetary periods are in operation.

Yellow Sapphire in Virgo Ascendant

Jupiter loses much of its potency in this ascendant ruled by Mercury. In this ascendant Jupiter becomes the Lord of two quadrant houses- the 4th quadrant house of assets, mother and pleasures and the 7th house of marriage and partnerships. 

When a planet owns two quadrant houses, it suffers from the Kendradhipati Dosha or weak directional influence. Individuals should consider wearing a yellow sapphire gemstone only when the Jupiter periods are operating. Individuals in whose horoscope, Jupiter is posited in the 4th, 7th or 11th house can wear yellow sapphire stone when the Jupiter major period or sub periods are operating.

To be continued...