Jaechan DONGKIZ’s agency, Dongyo Entertainment, released a statement denying rumors of bullying at school.

Recently on Twitter, an anonymous poster claimed that Jaechan smoked e-cigarettes at school and that he harassed female students. Netizens also added Jaechan’s graduation photos from elementary and middle school to support their claim. However, Dongyo Entertainment released a statement denying the claims.

We thank fans who always support and appreciate DONGKIZ.

We are providing our statement regarding the false information and rumors about Jaechan that were recently shared through online communities.

1. What the post claims is not true.

After the post was published, we went through a process of checking with the artist personally and with his acquaintances, and we confirmed that what the post claimed was not true.

Since the relevant issue is a socially important issue, the agency has gone through a process of checking with school representatives regarding [the artist’s] his social and school life since before his debut, and we checked that there were no problems.

2. The agency is currently waiting for the results following legal procedures

Since the relevant posts were published, the company has collected all the reference materials. On March 4, 2022, we filed a lawsuit for cyber defamation and alleged slander through the dissemination of false information, and we have continued to monitor the information that has been uploaded since then.

Furthermore, starting today (14 March), the investigator on duty has been assigned, and is currently in the process of being investigated. We inform you that the agency is checking in real time the progress of the investigation following legal procedures.

In the future, the company will take strict legal action without any settlement or leniency after continuously monitoring false information and malicious comments regarding Jaechan and all the agency’s artists. 

We ask for your generous understanding for causing concern to fans as the announcement was delayed in order to cooperate with the investigative agency on securing the identity of the accused as well as any additional information.
We once again state that the false information and rumors that have been shared