Austria
Young civil servants mobilised to support long-term care workers as paramedics – the government estimates about 14 600 additional
workers can be mobilised this way.

Bulgaria
A call was launched to mobilise medical students and retired health professionals to combat COVID‑19.

France
About 3 000 health professionals were registered in the sanitary reserve before the crisis. An additional 40 000 expressed their
interest to be registered by April 2020

Germany
Over 20 000 medical students registered to combat COVID‑19 (as of 26 March). Potential pool of about 14 000 foreign-trained
physicians waiting for recognition of their diplomas.

Hungary
Over 900 volunteers registered at the NHS website to combat COVID‑19 .

Iceland
The Ministry of Health established a health care service reserve which includes doctors, nurses, auxiliaries, retired health workers
and medical and nursing students. 1 000 health professionals registered to this reserve.
 
Netherlands
Additional workforce mobilised in hospitals by reactivating former health professionals (retired workers or other people no longer
working in hospitals). Other measures included removing obligations for re-registration, allowing workers whose official registration
had expired to work and mobilising additional workforce from the military service.

Spain
The Ministry of Health implemented a series of measures, including: hiring of retired workers, resident doctors, nursing or other
health workers; and relocating health workers to facilities and regions with greater needs.

United Kingdom
The UK Regulatory Bodies for all health care professions facilitated rapid re-registration of retired clinicians and over 50 000 of these
made an initial offer to return to support the NHS. Along with medical, nursing and AHP students, over 60000 extra personnel
became available to work and many thousands were employed in front line and remote services. In addition, a call for volunteers to
support NHS services resulted in more than 750 000 applications.