The lifestyle that we follow have much effects on our health and wellness. A healthy lifestyle can support cancer treatments and help one feel better. It also improves the long term health as well. 

Healthy living means making positive behavior changes as part of an ongoing, life-long process. 

Check out few changes that can enhance your lifestyle 

1. Accept practical and emotional support 

Having a network of supportive people is very beneficial for your health, especially emotional support. Studies have compared people with cancer who had the most and least social support. Those with the most social support had better quality of life and lived longer. 

2. Manage stress 

Reducing your stress level can help you maintain your physical and mental health. Here are a few tips to manage stress: 

It can be helpful to set aside 20 minutes or more per day for stress management practices. 

3. Get enough sleep 

Try for 7 to 8 hours of sleep each night. This improves your health, coping ability, mood, weight control, memory and attention, and more.  

4. Exercise regularly  

Exercise during and after cancer treatment. This can help reduce fatigue, weight gain, and loss of strength. In addition to regular exercise, try to avoid sitting or lying down for long periods. 

Be sure to talk to your health care team about developing an exercise plan that is safe and appropriate for you.

5. Eat well

A healthy diet can help you manage cancer side effects, recover quicker, and improve health. It may also lower your future risk of cancer.

If you are receiving cancer treatment, it is important to work with a registered dietitian nutritionist with a specialization in oncology to develop a safe eating plan for you.

6. Avoid environmental toxins

Limit your exposure to environmental toxins that can increase a person’s risk of cancer and other illnesses, such as tobacco smoke, asbestos, styrene (found in Styrofoam), formaldehyde, and tetrachloroethylene (perchloroethylene; “dry cleaning fluid”), to name a few.

Read more - https://www.cancer.net/blog/2018-09/6-lifestyle-changes-improve-your-cancer-care