It’s not necessary you should be a great father but good enough to take care of own family. Nikola (Goran Bogdan) heard this straight from the local welfare authority after his wife set fire before his company demanding the pending salary which led her and children into poverty. Otac’s touching moments begin from this first scene. Biljana (Nada Šargin) is walking fast on the road with her children. The pace of her walk and the determination on her weary face shudder us. You see and remember her presence in absence throughout from now.

It’s a long walk for Nikola to Belgrade, 300 km on foot! He senses his kids were sent to a welfare unit and the local authority is stonewalling. His journey to get them back is not an easy one. May be Nikola’s hardships in the journey could have earned more sentiments. But the plot sticks to its purpose. Srdan Golubovic (director) succeeds in fastening us to the sheer determination of a father who feels a little guilty about his past life though not loud, to win back his family.

The social and political scenarios of Serbia is clearly portrayed by Srdan Golubovic in this film. Some loots, some helps, some advices, some gives shelter and food. Everyone is aware of the scenarios around but remain tight-lipped. The scene in which Nikola is picking up his household items from the neighbour houses evokes dark humour and empathy.

Otac doesn’t please the authorities hiding realities. The man fights the bureaucracy entertaining no loopholes. Srdan brilliantly places media and social media here.

I am surprised by the big impact of the subtle emotional pace of this movie. Nikola is dull and stoic until he meets his children. His wife doesn’t go overboard in the hospital bed but we feel it deep. Kids, girl hugs the dad with all love, the teenager son doesn’t hold his anger. When the foster family drags his son, the protective father comes out from Nikola. 

Otac has screened in many international film festivals and I watched it at the Bengaluru International Film Festival (BIFFES) running now.