The concept of veganism is being adopted by more and more people across India. In Bhopal, the capital of Madhya Pradesh, vegans are growing in number with each passing day.

Magpie News contacted four leading outlets of confectionaries and sweetmeats and asked them if there were any plans that they will start offering vegan products in future.

At one such outlet – Gaagar -- on Jyoti Talkies Square, the manager said that some products they offer are 90% vegan and only ghee is used, which stops them from being 100% vegan.

The proprietor of another shop selling select vegetarian merchandise said that they do get enquiries but have no plans to stock vegan products in any substantial quantities as of now.

At Manohar in M.P. Nagar, Magpie News reached out to the manager Rajjan Thakur, who said that currently the shop, with multiple outlets across Bhopal, does not have any vegan products.

At the time of writing this story, we were still waiting for a response from Top ‘n Town, one of the largest selling ice-cream and bakery brands in Bhopal and other cities of Madhya Pradesh.

As the above indicates, there is both caution and curiosity regarding veganism, vegan products and vegan consumers, and this is true not only in Bhopal or MP but across the country.

For the uninitiated, veganism involves completely giving up animal products and animal-derived products in any shape or form. This includes dairy milk, dairy products, dairy-derived products, animal secretions like honey and animal-derived products like wool and fur.

In effect, veganism is more than a diet. It is a way of life predicated upon the premise that all animals are equal and one species – humans -- does not have the moral authority to exploit another species for purposes of consumption, entertainment or experimentation. 

Turning vegan benefits not just other animals but also the environment and your own health. And since it is the most logically ethical thing to do, it has huge dividends for your mental health and well being as well.

For more information, please google Veganism and watch the documentaries Deadly Dairy and Cowspiracy on YouTube.