Raymond Parlour is one of the mainstays of Arsenal’s team in the 90s and early 2000s who does not get requisite recognition today. A man with 466 games for Arsenal including three Premier League titles, four FA Cup, and a UEFA Cup Winner’s Cup rarely finds mention in conversations about the Arsenal of old. Parlour was nicknamed the ‘Romford Pele’ by Marc Overmars ironically because although he was a very able footballer, he did not possess a glamourous personality off the pitch. 
Ray Parlour came through the ranks at Arsenal and spent most of his career playing for the Gunners. His senior debut for the club came in 1992. Under Geroge Graham, Parlour was able to slot into a midfield that prided itself in its industry and tenaciousness. After the arrival of Arsene Wenger in 1996, Parlour was a prominent fixture in the squad, plying his trade on the right wing or central midfield positions. Already an able tackler and workhorse, coaching by the Frenchman also unearthed his subtle qualities. Parlour was integral to the team that won the first double in 1997-98. His performance in the FA Cup final against Newcastle. won him man of the match. When Arsenal won the double again in 2001-02, he was again instrumental, opening the scoring against Chelsea in the cup final. Despite not being a prolific goal scorer, some of Parlour’s goals at Arsenal were truly spectacular. Ray Parlour can lay claim to being one of the underrated players of his generation, given that he had the most appearances for the club during its most sustained spell of recent success. 
The Invincibles season in 2003-04 was his last at Arsenal. Parlour signed for Middlesbrough in 2004 and spent the next two and a half seasons at the club making 60 appearances. Towards the end of the 2006-07 season, he was signed by Hull City in a bid to avoid relegation from the Championship. After avoiding the drop with Hull City, Parlour left the club and retired from football. Ray Parlour did not feature much for the national team, with a total of only 10 appearances that came in 1999 and 2000.