Researchers say the Black Summer bushfires' impact on Indigenous Australians had been made worse by inadequate treatment, including racism, from recovery services.

An Australian National University study says Indigenous people were hit hard during the 2019-20 disaster, with many feeling unwelcome at recovery centres after enduring the devastating loss of homes, land and lives.

The report examining First Nations Australians' first hand experiences during the bushfires revealed they had experienced "extreme trauma".

The ANU Centre for Aboriginal Economic Policy Research study also claimed there were "scary similarities" during the recent northern NSW floods.

"So many Aboriginal people were affected by the bushfires," the study's lead author and ANU PhD candidate Bhiamie Williamson said.

"They experienced extreme trauma both from the fire itself and the response from non-Indigenous organisations and government agencies.

"There is a huge gap in policy when it comes to supporting Indigenous peoples in disasters, with very little regard as to how disasters impact Indigenous peoples in ways that are different to others."

The study highlighted the need for emergency management plans that addressed Aboriginal people's unique needs, he said.

"The lack of planning involving First Nations peoples meant that the response during the Black Summer bushfires was inadequate, ineffective and inappropriate," Mr Williamson said.

"It is clear that Aboriginal people, communities and First Nations were made to feel unwelcome, and that agencies were, in many instances, reluctant to provide relief.

"This lack of support and disregard stems from inherit bias and structural racism."

Mr Williamson believed similar problems had been highlighted during the northern NSW floods.

He hoped the research also helped empower Aboriginal community organisations to "step up" and advocate for themselves.

"We are seeing scary similarities in what is happening with the flooding in northern NSW," Mr Williamson said.

"Large numbers of Aboriginal people are being affected, with many communities being cut off, and having to fend for themselves yet again.

"It is essential to recognise that while all people are impacted by disasters, some are impacted in ways that are different, with markedly different consequences."

The research was funded in partnership with the Australian Indigenous Governance Institute.