The most Wonderful gift for every mother as well as baby ! *Breastfeeding* ❤️🤱

Breast milk provides abundant and easily absorbed nutritional components , antioxidants , enzymes , immune properties , and live antibodies from mother . Mother’s more mature immune system makes antibodies to the germs to which she and her baby have been exposed . These antibodies enter her milk to help protect her baby from illness . Immunoglobulin A coats the lining of the baby’s immature intestines helping germs and allergens from leaking through . Breast milk also contains substances that naturally soothe infants .

Do You know Breastfeeding is healthier for Mom's physically and emotionally both ! Let me tell you how ; 🤱

1 Promotes faster weight loss after birth , burning about 500 extra calories a day .
2 Stimulates the uterus to contract and return to normal size .
3 Less postpartum bleeding .
4 Fewer urinary tract infections .
5 Less chance of anemia .
6 Less risk of postpartum depression and more positive mood .
7 Breastfeeding produces the naturally soothing hormones oxytocin and prolactin that promote stress reduction and positive feelings in mother .
8 Increased confidence and self-esteem
Increased calmness . 
9 Breastfed babies cry less overall , and have fewer incidences of childhood illness.  
10 Breastfeeding can support the wellness of body , mind , and spirit for the whole family .
11 Breastfeeding makes travel easier .
12 Breast milk is always clean and the right temperature .
13 Physical/emotional bonding between mother and child is increased . 
14 Breastfeeding promotes more skin-to-skin contact , more holding and stroking . 
15 Breastfeeding mothers learn to read their infant’s cues and babies learn to trust caregivers . 
16 Lower risk of breast cancer .
17 Lower risk of ovarian cancer .
18 Lower risk of rheumatoid arthritis and lupus .
19 Less endometriosis .
20 Less osteoporosis with age .

Breastfeeding is the one parenting behavior that only the mother can do for her baby , creating a unique and powerful physical and emotional connection . ❤️🤱