With gasoline prices trending over US$4 per gallon nationwide, politicians are feeling the heat. In response, Maryland and Georgia have temporarily waived their state gasoline taxes to reduce the burden on consumers. Other states are considering similar actions, and some members of Congress have called for suspending the federal gas tax. The Conversation asked four experts whether gas tax waivers are an effective way to provide economic relief to U.S. households, and what other impacts these measures could have.

Not a windfall

Jay Zagorsky, Senior Lecturer in Markets, Public Policy and Law, Boston University

As an economist who has studied gasoline prices, I doubt that waiving gas taxes will meaningfully lower prices at the pump. Russia’s invasion of Ukraine boosted gasoline prices dramatically, and politicians feel a need to show voters they are doing something. Cutting gas taxes makes great political theater, but as a few numbers show, it is an ineffective policy.

According to the American Automobile Association, the average price of gasoline in Maryland just before the state’s gas tax holiday was $4.25 per gallon. Two days after the state stopped charging the gas tax, prices were $3.81. A 44-cent drop may look significant, but it’s not that simple.

First, not all of that decrease happened because of eliminating the gas tax. Neither Delaware nor the District of Columbia, both of which border Maryland, had waived their gas taxes. However, over the same time period, Delaware gas prices declined by 19 cents per gallon and D.C. prices fell by almost 16 cents. These drops are partly due to falling oil prices. Florida, which is far from Maryland, saw a 16-cent drop per gallon over this same time period.

The latest U.S. government statistics show that Maryland consumes 4.5 million gallons of gasoline per day. That sounds like a lot, but Maryland has 6 million people. That means the average person consumes about 22 gallons per month.

Read full story at The Conversation: https://theconversation.com/would-gas-tax-breaks-make-a-big-difference-when-prices-are-skyrocketing-we-asked-4-experts-179892

Image courtesy:
https://newsroom.ap.org/detail/WashingtonGasPrices/ea950a59ec6d4e859fb8f87eb4d23d48/photo