By Sayantan Ghosh

Kolkata: Not everything is alright inside Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee-led Trinamool Congress. Mamata Banerjee is one of the few existing Indian politicians who emerged from a very middle-class family and grew up in grassroots movements.

When Banerjee left the Congress and formed the Trinamool Congress, some of her close aides, including her senior, joined her. Partha Chatterjee was one of Banerjee‘s most trusted lieutenants from the very beginning. Mamata Banerjee calls only some of the leaders by their names but as "Da," a short form of Dada (elder brother). Chatterjee was one such leader.

But now Banerjee is in a tough position. Her party is devastated by an alleged graft case. Chatterjee, who is the second most important cabinet minister after Banerjee and the Secretary General of the TMC, the third most important post is in jail. The nephew of Mamata Banerjee, who is the national general secretary of the party, Abhishek Banerjee, held a closed-door meeting yesterday with reportedly close to him.

A section of the leaders close to Abhishek Banerjee has already started raising questions against the current leadership, which includes Mamata Banerjee and her lieutenant. Several sections of the party have started putting pressure on Banerjee to revamp the existing cabinet and also the top leadership positions to remove the people who face allegations of corruption. Political pundits and insiders of the party believe that in this situation, to retain her image of honesty, Mamata Banerjee will be forced to take these decisions in a bid to stop any rift within her party.

What is the issue?

West Bengal Industry Minister and senior TMC leader Partha Chatterjee was detained by the Enforcement Directorate on Saturday, July 23, in connection with an alleged scam involving the recruitment of teachers in the state. According to the Trinamool Congress (TMC), which claims this was a "ploy" by the central government. This follows nighttime raids on Friday that resulted in the seizure of Rs 20 crore from Chatterjee's assistant Arpita Mukherjee's home as part of the probe. She was then taken into custody by the organisation. 

Read more
https://www.newsdrum.in/analysis/bengal-ssc-scam-why-mamata-banerjee-is-under-pressure-to-overhaul-cabinet-and-organisation-64814.html