“Effective diversity efforts must represent mirrors and windows: a space where all people see themselves (mirrors) and connect with others (windows) in ways that support fostering an equitable society.”- Dr. Derrick Gay
Diversity, equity, and inclusion (DEI) are of crucial importance in the workplace. It aims at spreading awareness to improve structural and social impediments and achieve an enriching working environment. Recent years have been marked by many challenges organizations and society face in identifying and valuing a work culture’s unique differences. From the #MeToo movement to #BlackLivesMatter, DEI lives at the forefront of workplace dialogue. In Fact actress Francis McDormand used her 2018 Academy Award acceptance speech to promote the "inclusion rider." McDormand seized the moment to inspire a commitment to diversity, and set an important example for leaders everywhere. Once Barack Obama mentioned too “Research has shown that diverse groups are more effective at problem-solving than homogeneous groups, and policies that promote diversity and inclusion will enhance the ability to draw from the broadest possible pool of talent, solve toughest challenges, maximize employee engagement and innovation, and lead by example.”Thus integrating DEI becomes one of the crucial steps in making an organization a success.
DEI stands for diversity, equity, and inclusivity. Diversity is built on the understanding that each individual is uniquely valuable. Encompassing the dimensions of race, ethnicity, gender, and diversity also acknowledges socioeconomic status physical abilities, religious beliefs, political beliefs and other ideologies. Thus a diverse work culture embraces and celebrates the rich differences embodied by each individual. Equity in the workplace implies that everyone receives fair treatment and equal access to opportunities. According to Jim Link, equity and equality are necessary to realize a diverse and inclusive environment. When all members of a diverse community have equal opportunities and support to grow, equity is achieved. Inclusion in the workplace refers to collaborative, supportive, and respectful efforts to encourage the participation and contribution of all employees. It removes all barriers and promote an environment in which everyone feels included. 

Therefore, to reap success, it’s necessary to invest in a wider variety of people to match an equally complex global milieu.