Impact on India continues...
India’s apprehensions of an enhanced role for Pakistan in Afghanistan have to a large extent driven India’s approach to the Taliban as well. India continues to see the Taliban as Pakistan’s proxy, incapable of negotiating independently. There are concerns that Taliban’s involvement in Afghanistan’s future political setup would invariably provide an opportunity for Pakistan to enhance its own influence in the country. The attack on the Indian Embassy kn Kabul in 2008, which was traced back to the Haqqani Network and the top leadership of the Pakistan Army, has reinforced India’s 
fears of a Taliban-Pakistan collusion in the future.
Taliban’s ideology and the memory of what transpired in Afghanistan during the Taliban era has also shaped India’s 
opposition to the group. India claims that Pakistani groups like 
Lashkar-e-Tayyeba, Harkat-ul-Mujahideen and Hizb-ulMujahideen were provided a safe haven and operating space in 
Afghanistan during the 1990s. Such allegations were confirmed by 
the US airstrikes on suspected al Qaeda training camps in Khost 
that turned out to be a Hizb-ul Mujahideen base. The Taliban’s 
complicity in the hijacking of the Indian Airlines IC-814 in 1999 
further strengthened India’s fears about the Taliban. 
The Indian Ministry of Defence, in its Annual Report for 2000-2001, articulated the concerns succinctly, “any fundamentalist regime in 
Afghanistan such as the Taliban, could be an insidious threat for our secularism, and a potentially destabilising factor in Kashmir.”
Although, India has now reluctantly extended support for an 
Afghan-led and Afghan-owned peace process, the idea of ‘good’ 
Taliban has never found a very receptive audience in India. It has 
often been rejected as a western construct meant to facilitate an 
orderly and face saving exit from Afghanistan. S. M. Krishna, then 
India’s External Affairs Minister, had said in 2010, “there should be 
no distinction between a good Taliban and a bad Taliban.” Shashi 
Tharoor, India’s Minister of State for External Affairs, echoed 
similar sentiments in 2010 when he said that there “are no ‘good 
terrorists’, and those who strike Faustian bargains with such 
elements are often left to rue the consequences for their own 
countries.
To be continued....