By Akansha Srivastava 

Last week, the government released guidelines around misleading ads. In those, it specified that surrogate advertising is banned, but brands prohibited by law to advertise directly can continue advertising brand extensions by matching the criteria for legitimate brand extensions.

They also lay down the guidelines around brand endorsement, conditions for bait advertising and free claims, advertising targeted at children and more.  

Since then, there have been many critics and appreciations hovering general conversations in the advertising and marketing fraternity. Some have praised the government for taking real action on the ground around misleading ads and surrogate advertising, while others have raised doubts around there being no clarity around brand extensions, what constitutes junk food, and the need for more guidelines around other issues related to advertising. 

Therefore, BestMediaInfo.com caught up with Nidhi Khare, Chief Commissioner, CCPA (Central Consumer Protection Authority), to get more clarity on the new ad guidelines. 

In the interview, she said that surrogate advertising was already banned, and the new guidelines are just a reiteration of the existing provisions of surrogate advertising. No new addition has been made there. 

Nidhi said that these guidelines cover all mediums of communication and CCPA will take action against alcohol brands advertising directly on the digital medium. She also spoke about influencers coming under the government radar, advertising targeted towards children and gender portrayal in ads. 

Excerpts: 

Surrogate advertising is banned for a long time now. There are already government guidelines in place for bait advertising, endorsement and advertising to children as mentioned in the Consumer Protection Act. What is the thought behind re-iterating these guidelines again?

We’ve been taking action against misleading ads as the Central Consumer Protection Authority since the time it had been set up in July 2020. As such, there was no need for the guidelines. Anyways, we were taking action against misleading advertising. We have penalised some of the very important brands, including Sensodyne and Naaptol. We have also issued orders against more than 40 very big names like Asian paints, Burger paints, Siyaram Fabric, Zodiac shirts, Kent RO and others. 

Read the full story here:- https://bestmediainfo.com/2022/06/bmi-exclusive-will-take-action-against-alcohol-brands-advertising-directly-on-digital-says-ccpas-nidhi-khare