Since John F Kennedy no other president has maintained an impressive path in securing senate confirmation in his first year of more district court and court of appeals judges. 

Gratifying the victory of Ketanji brown Jackson President nominates 5 more including Judge John Z. Lee-United States Court of Appeals for the Seventh Circuit, Judge Salvador Mendoza, Jr- United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit, Judge Stephen Henley Locher:United States District Court for the Southern District of Iowa, Nancy L. Maldonado: United States District Court for the Northern District of Illinois, Gregory B. Williams-United States District Court for the District of Delaware.

Democrats remain unhindered in the senate and democrats stand united in approving judges nominated by Biden. Biden's goal in adding racial, ethnic and professional diversity in courts. should be noted here. All of them are well-qualified. While nominating 72 per cent of Biden's picks for judges will be women, 30 per cent will be Black, 21 per cent will be Hispanic and 19 per cent will be Asian American, the White House official said according to NBC need. Democrats moving forward quickly as this will not be possible if Republicans come into power after the elections.

If confirmed,  
Judge John Z. Lee would be the first Asian American judge to ever serve on the Seventh Circuit.

Judge Salvador Mendoza would be the first Hispanic judge to ever serve on the Ninth Circuit from Washington State.

Nancy L. Maldonado would be the first Hispanic woman to ever serve as a federal judge in the state of Illinois.

Finally, Gregory B. Williams would be the only judge of colour currently serving on the U.S. District Court for the District of Delaware, and the second African American judge to ever serve in the District of Delaware.

This is the most exciting news! Biden is keeping his promise which is hard to see in Presidents. This definitely is going to make a great change. We as a nation should embrace diversities and make everyone feel included and be part of the nations progress.