Menstruation is one of the important natural and healthy parts of life. Many cultures of India celebrates the first periods. It is very important process that a women undergoes every month. Most of the women uses the commercial pads that are made up of the plastic . The cycle of menstruation starts when they reach a age of 12 or 13 and it continues till the age of 50. But the women are unaware that the sanitary napkins that are used by them cause harmful affect to the environment and ultimately increases the pollution in the nature. So it’s responsibility of the women and other people to dispose off the pads properly. Women should not be irresponsible on this topic of disposing of the pads. 

According to the National Family Health Survey 2015-2016, more than 48percent of the women of the age group of 15-24 in rural areas and 78 percent of women receding in the urban areas uses the sanitary napkins during the cycle of menstruation. Most of the women are trying to use the hygienic menstrual products, but at the same time the side effects of the napkins caused in the environment cannot be ignored.

According to The Logical Indian, co-founder of Boondh- which works towards the   agenda of creating sustainably menstruation population. “pads are made from the innumerable chemicals that includes the banned carcinogenic herbicides that can lead to various health diseases like RTIs, STIs and cervical cancer. ‘’Not only this it causes various health problems like vaginal environment gets affected , it causes rashes and etc.

The sanitary napkins includes the absorbent gel, that absorbs all the moisture from the body and leaves irritation in the body.

Not only this although , the sanitary napkins also harm the environment at the time of disposable of the pads.

 As the sanitary napkins are  made up of the plastic , and the plastic takes more that 600 years to decompose. 

Napkins contaminated with the blood can pose great health affect for the waste collector. It can act as a biological hazard for the waste collectors. In spite of having worse effect on the environment.