Sharad Pawar, the president of the NCP, stated on Sunday that his party will never submit to the "rulers in Delhi," despite the fact that several opposition leaders are currently being investigated by federal agencies. He also urged non-BJP parties to cooperate in order to prevent the saffron party from coming to power.
Speaking in front of the Nationalist Congress Party's (NCP) eighth national conference in Delhi, Mr. Pawar criticised Prime Minister Modi's administration for the nation's "fanning animosity" toward religious minorities and for the nation's rising unemployment and inflation rates
"The present government must be democratically challenged since it abuses central institutions like the CBI, Enforcement Directorate, and money power. We must be ready for conflict "Party workers were advised by the 81-year-old Rajya Sabha member.
Central authorities are looking into the activities of opposition figures who transcend party lines, including Sonia Gandhi, Rahul Gandhi, Farooq Abdullah, P Chidambaram, Karti Chidambaram, Sanjay Raut, Nawab Malik, Abhishek Banerjee, Satyendra Jain, and Manish Sisodia.
While the government of Prime Minister Modi asserts that they are under investigation for alleged irregularities, the opposition has dubbed the proceedings a political vengeance.
Mr. Pawar further highlighted the importance of the convention's location, the Talkatora Indoor Stadium.
He claimed, "Bajirao Peshwa had tented with his troops here and had assaulted the kings of Delhi in 1737.
Mr. Pawar also emphasised the importance of developing youthful leadership by giving them preference in the impending nationwide elections for city corporations, zilla parishads, and panchayat samitis.
He also commended the NCP's student wing president Sonia Doohan and youth wing president Dheeraj Sharma for hosting the national convention in Delhi.
Ajit Pawar, the current leader of the opposition in the state parliament and a former deputy chief minister of Maharashtra, received the greatest applause when his daughter Sule lauded his management of the finance ministry during Covid.
Ajit Pawar, who is regarded as the NCP's heir apparent, wasn't present when his name was called as the penultimate speaker prior to the NCP supremo's closing comments.
