By Kaswar Klasra

Islamabad (Pakistan): Two nuclear-armed hostile neighbours came close to opening a new front after a few Indian soldiers accidentally crossed into Pakistan’s side of LOC at Fatehpur Thakiala sector.  

In a surprising move, the unexpected visitors were served with refreshments and allowed to return with dignity by the Pakistani troops.

As per sources, it all happened on Sunday, June 19, 2022, when seven commandos of the Indian Army accidentally crossed the Line of Control at the Fatehpur Thakiala sector. The commandos found themselves in a situation after locals of the area got hold of them and informed Pakistani troops posted nearby. However, no unpleasant incident occurred until the Pakistani soldiers arrived at the scene. 

A source in the Pakistan military confirmed the incident and said unexpected guests were taken care of.

“They were served with tea and refreshment by the Pakistani troops deputed there. As a good gesture, Indian soldiers were allowed to return with dignity,” said a source.

Locals can be seen in a video clip available exclusively with NewsDrum, shouting “Pakistan Army Zinda Baad’ (Long live Pakistan Army) while Pakistani troops can be seen arriving on foot.

( Link https://www.instagram.com/tv/CfA8wh0lwoQ/?igshid=YmMyMTA2M2Y=)

According to an eyewitness, Pakistani troops greeted the Indian soldiers and took them along to the nearby post.

“We had never seen such a pleasant meeting of Pakistani and Indian troops like this in this area. It was such a wonderful experience to see troops of two hostile neighbouring countries meeting in a cordial atmosphere while fully loaded guns hanging from their shoulders,” a local from the area who witnessed the whole episode, told NewsDrum on Sunday.  

There was no word from Pakistan’s military regarding the incident until the filing of this report. However, such incidents of good gestures rarely occur across the Line of Control given the terrible history of confrontation between South Asian Nuclear-armed neighbours which have fought three wars since 1947.

Read the full story here:- https://www.newsdrum.in/international/indian-soldiers-slip-into-pakistan-side-of-loc-allowed-to-return-with-dignity-47045.html