
BTS RM reveals what he misses most about life before fame.
In recent interview he shared how their life was completely different from the time when they were still trainees hoping to debut to know when they achieve successful success.  RM often received recognization for his strong leadership, taking on the unimaginable task of guiding the group that has reached new heights for K-Pop artists. In his interview, RM was asked if he feels he’s a different person now compared to how he used to be. 
"Yes, I’m very different. In the past, I was constantly chasing the future, mainly because I felt unhappy about the present. Now, I have more perspective and I can see for myself"
"Now, when something happens, I know how to look at it from my point of view and respond accordingly. I guess I’m a little more grown up. I think I’ve trained myself so that I can practice the skills I need as a member of society."
RM was asked what he missed the most about life before fame, he shared it was friendships
The relationships I could build without weighing their importance. The friends I could make by saying, ‘I know you. You’re so-and-so from so-and-so.’ When I was young, I used to be able to create new, fair friendships just like that. And that’s how I made friends at the playground before school. We’d cockfight and climb the jungle gym. Even when I started school, I made friends the same way. I’d go up and say, ‘Hey. I’m so-and-so from the classroom next door. I’ve heard a lot about you.’ And soon, my friends’ friends would become my friends and whatnot. Once I became RM, I became well-known to everyone. So there may be biases, and there may be differences in the amount of information we have about one another. Hence, it’s difficult to establish relationships that are equal. And after having experienced some of that, I kind of shut myself off. I guess that’s why I miss the times when people didn’t know me—for the relationships that I used to be able to have, with the purest of intentions.