Are the children being exploited at the special care facilities? A pair of senators are launching an investigation into abuse at institutions that house children with special needs and mental health issues as well as children from the foster care and juvenile justice systems. 

Sens. Patty Murray, D-Wash., and Ron Wyden, D-Ore., sent letters to the heads of four of the largest companies and organizations operating residential treatment facilities across the country — Vivant Behavioral Healthcare, Universal Health Services, Acadia Healthcare, and Devereux Advanced Behavioral Health — requesting information about each location and program they operate. 

The senators asked for documentation on policies for restraining children or placing them in seclusion, the training provided to employers, and the number of maltreatment and abuse incidents over the past five years.

 They also asked for details on contracts, funding sources, complaints and inspections, how the companies spend their money, and how the companies ensure that children in their programs get a proper education. 
The senators chose the four companies and organizations because they run a large number of facilities nationwide and operate programs “at which abuses are reported to have occurred,” according to a spokesman for the HELP committee.

“Kids and teens struggling with mental health, substance use, and other challenges must be able to get the care and support they need in a compassionate, safe, and nurturing environment. Period," Murray said in a statement. "But it’s clear that egregious treatment of young people has occurred in residential care facilities across the country — so we’re demanding answers and accountability."

For the past few years, there has been pressure for congress to check on these kinds of institutions as there were cases uncovered by journalists and activists that reported abuse of children. This step if monitored properly can make a great difference in helping the proper functioning of these institutions.

Source: NBC News