Other African countries that have recently severed ways with their mentors include the two
countries. Corentin Martins has been selected as the new coach of Libya's senior national team,
succeeding Spanish coach Javier Clemente.

To take charge of the Mediterranean Knights, the 52-year-old coach signed a one-year contract
with the Libya Football Federation.

 Clemente resigned by mutual agreement, allowing Martins to
take his place. Martins had been fired as Mauritania's coach seven months prior.

Former Simba SC head coach Manuel Da Rosa was named to succeed him after working as
Mauritania's strategist for seven years. Da Rosa was fired as well, but only after leading the
North Africans to the Afcon finals in Cameroon in 2021. Martins will also be in charge of the
Libyan team competing in the African Nations Championship (Chan) qualifiers.

Meanwhile, reports that the Football Association of Malawi is overspending on their new coach,
Mario Marinica, who recently replaced Meke Mwase, have been debunked.

"The truth of the matter is that since his arrival in the country in November 2021, Mr. Marinica
has been staying at Hotel Amaryllis," the federation noted.

"Initially this was supposed to be a temporary arrangement for a month as he was finalising his
employment and work permit documentation. Marinica had to accompany the Flames to Saudi
Arabia for pre- Afcon camping in December and Cameroon for the Afcon in January.

"The Flames left Malawi on December 23rd, 2021, and returned on January 28th, 2022.
 Upon
his return from Afcon, Marinica was supposed to be provided with accommodation within
Blantyre as provided in his employment contract.

While FAM was looking for a residence, Amaryllis Hotel provided a customised "long-stay
package" that met Mr. Marinica's accommodation needs while also being cost-effective for FAM.

FAM was offered a special rate of K900,000.00 per month at the Amaryllis Hotel, which included
all services except meals [lunch and dinner]. The public might be interested to know that the
monthly rentals for completely furnished residences on offer ranged from K900,000 to K1.2
million.