After an outstanding debut season in the Bundesliga at Red Bull Arena, the Blues are interested in signing the young defender.

Chelsea have signed RB Leipzig defender Josko Gvardiol to replace Antonio Rudiger and Andreas Christensen, who are leaving the club.

Despite his age, the 20-year-old defender is being examined for a summer transfer as a good alternative to playing on the left side of a back three.Of course, he isn't the sole objective, and the Blues are unable to adequately plan for the summer until the club's new owners take control from Roman Abramovich.

The Blues have also highlighted Jules Kounde of Sevilla, Presnel Kimpembe of Paris Saint-Germain, and Jose Giminez of Atletico Madrid as possible additions.

In all three situations, Chelsea have looked into signing players in the past, with Kounde being 
one of those who was pursued right up to the deadline last summer.

Even in Gvardiol's case, the Blues had been watching him since he broke through with Dinamo Zagreb in Croatia.

Thomas Tuchel is expected to acquire two defenders to replace both of his departing players, with Rudiger having struck a deal with Real Madrid and Christensen with Barcelona.

There are still a number of interesting defenders in the loan group,with Huddersfield's Levi Colwill, Venezia's Ethan Ampadu, and Blackpool's Dujon Sterling all being considered for recall.

Chelsea is also interested in midfielders Declan Rice of West Ham United and Aurelien Tchoameni of Monaco, but both players are in high demand, and the Blues would have to 
transfer one of their senior midfielders to make it happen.

Conor Gallagher of Crystal Palace is the only loanee who is almost guaranteed to return in the summer.

However, they are unable to prepare for the future due to penalties imposed on the club when Roman Abramovich was found to have contact with Vladimir Putin by the UK government.

The Blues can't do much but scout and set up shortlists, so they're keeping most of their 
activities in-house.