As a big number of MLAs and MPs from opposition parties voted in favour of Droupadi Murmu, the candidate of the National Democratic Alliance, the presidential election has shown rifts within the opposition camp.

Murmu reportedly received the support of 17 opposition MPs and over 125 MLAs, giving her a blowout victory over Yashwant Sinha. Sinha won 36% of the vote compared to Murmu's 64%.

25 opposition MLAs in Assam cast votes for Murmu. Himanta Biswa Sarma, the chief minister of Assam and a BJP leader, stated on Twitter that Droupadi Murmu received 104 votes in the 126-member Assam Assembly as opposed to the NDA's initial strength of 79. My sincere appreciation to the Assamese people for placing their trust in the NDA's presidential candidate and actively participating in this historic moment.

In a similar manner, Murmu received 16 more votes in Madhya Pradesh. Sinha received 79 votes from the state assembly, while she received 146.

Surprisingly, Murmu also won one legislator's backing from Kerala's 140-member assembly, where the BJP-led NDA lacks even one member. Sinha received backing from the UDF, an opposition group led by Congress, as well as the ruling Left-led coalition.

The BJP was overjoyed by Kerala's single vote in favour of Murmu and said it was more significant than the state's other 139 votes.

Murmu received a cross-vote in favour from a few Trinamool Congress lawmakers from Meghalaya. The NDA candidate in Manipur received the support of Congress MLAs. Moreover, it has come to light that 10 MLAs from Gujarat, four from Goa, and six opposition MLAs from each of Bihar and Chhattisgarh supported Murmu.

After more than ten hours of counting on Thursday, Murmu was named the winner. Against Sinha's 1,877 first preference votes, she received 2,824. Compared to Sinha's 3,80,177 votes, she received 6,76,803 votes worth of value.

Murmu's appointment as president of India highlights some of the key of firsts, including the fact that, at 64, she would be the country's youngest-ever president of the country and the first member of a tribal group to do so.