So the D-Day is here and Goa is counting (by the time You read this again and again the counting might have even been over) for the Eighth Legislative Assembly. There are forty constituencies in Goa, 21 in North and 19 in South of Goa averaging anywhere between 28000-32000 voters. This means by noon, Goa would come to know who all would be populating its Legislative Assembly.

Most of the constituencies would be witnessing a multi-cornered contest between the BJP and the Indian National Congress - Goa Forward Alliance and Maharashtrawadi Gomantak Party – All India Trinamool Congress Alliance and Aam Admi Party. While Mainstream Pollsters have been giving a hung Assembly scenario with the ruling BJP holding the edge but the ground realities are pretty different.

The scourge of the Silent Voter – those who don’t expose their choice to pollsters and will be voting en masse for change is the one that is giving all parties sleepless nights. Reports talk of how Minorities hold sway over 28 of Goa’s 40 constituencies and play a crucial role in consolidating their choice and voting in favour of one party or even strong independents. This has left all the confused and preparing for the post-poll scenario leaving nothing to chance.

Smarting from its debacle last elections, Congress has been the first off the mark flying in post-poll coalition managers including Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee President D K Shivkumar and Maharashtra Minister Sunil Kedar who is known to have taken on BJP stalwarts including the last term Kindmaker Nitin Gadkari and BJP’s Goa Polls in-charge Devendra Fadnavis. The latter are incidentally in town to keep their Government in the state whatever it takes.

While the fight would directly be between BJP and Congress, MGP, AAP and TMC could play kingmakers. While the stakes are high and even a seat below majority could put aspirant Congress or incumbent BJP at small players' mercy, the silent voter could make or break people’s mandate to restore balance in Goa’s polity.