I have always felt half of the ‘my country’ feel is fed; the other half is organic being in the same milieu. To put simply, you may like any foreign country where your basic rights are protected and enjoy a certain identity similar to its citizens. How does it feel to be an outcast in your own country? Is the much-boasted unity in diversity real? Or just a tagline? Anek (many), the Ayushmann Khurana film raises this very important question. Who is an Indian among South Indian, North Indian and North East people? Do we have a North-East Indian?

Anubhav Sinha’s past film Article 15 was a direct thappad to Indian Casteism. And Thappad was a slap on the glorified Indian bahu’s puffy cheek. Some disturbing truths articulated through his characters force us to mull over them. Anek as a theme is in the same row. But Anubhav was a bit over-ambitious this time to stuff too many issues in a single plot. Shifting focuses ended up in mixed results. Even those results are worth knowing regions otherwise we know only for bad reasons.

Peace or peace accord? It’s always peace accord. War or peace? It’s always easy to maintain war. Sometimes, script turns very political. Sensible enough to reveal the global realities behind most of the peace missions. Sometimes it strains to find a connect with characters and the socio-political turmoil around.

In one scene, rebel leader Wango clearly explains to Joshua (Ayushmann) the undercover agent why they fight against discrimination and train the natives to protect their cultural identity through bloodshed. It was genuine. Political correctness is a difficult term here. That’s where Tiger Sangha is stuck. He eyes on a political gain pretending to deal with a political unrest. Bosses on the other side have their dark sides.

Adio, Wango’s daughter is in a different fight. She wants to win a medal for India to become an Indian from a North-East boxer. Andrea gently handles this character.

Something was lacking in Ayushmann’s acting. Why he sniffs?

Mulligan’s camera does a good job in grabbing the NE locales.