‘Imaginaerum’, written and scored by the Finnish symphonic metal heavyweights Nightwish, and directed by Stobe Harju is a dark fantasy musical based on the album of the same name.

Released in 2012 the film follows 75 year old musician Thomas Whitman, who is dying from Alzheimer’s disease and no longer remembers anything about himself or his life. He enters into a dream world of sorts made up from constructs of both his memories and imagination in the form of his ten year old self.

In the first phase of his journey, he meets a snowman who takes him on an adventure, only for him to soon realize that the snowman is not who he seems, and is in fact an evil entity who aims to drag him down further into the void of his darkest memories.

While in the real world, his estranged daughter Gem struggles to sign a Do Not Resuscitate order as Whitman has gone into a coma and further collapsed into his own mind. On this dream ride, Whitman encounters the many ghosts of his sordid past, and starts to recollect in fantastical ways, those things that truly matter to him, thus ultimately choosing those parts of his life that truly matter, while letting go of that dark memory which has haunted him his whole life.

This film is not some narcissistic bloated ego trip of a band, but a true cinematic ride, with the band only making appearances for enhancing the atmosphere of the film, not just for the sake of it.

The score is an important feature here as it has ultimately the same songs that feature on the Imaginaerum album, but they are creatively reimagined and more orchestrally rearranged. Furthermore, the score here is surprisingly restrained in contrast to Nightwish’s usual loudness and romp, with very little metal here.

While this movie will certainly appeal to Nightwish fans, this is a brilliant movie that works on its own merits and would be liked by most in general featuring a brilliant concept, with nuanced and layered storytelling, decent VFX , great music, acting and atmosphere. I highly recommend it.



Score: 9/10