When Juventus hosts Bologna in Turin on Sunday night, they want to resume their winning ways (7:45pm UK time).
 
Juventus' home match against Bologna, where they have won just two of their first seven league games this season, is a must-win game for them as they enter the match seven points adrift of early leaders Napoli. The Old Lady were startled by bottom-place Monza in their most recent Serie A match, when Raffaele Palladino's team defeated the most successful team in the tournament to earn their first-ever top-flight victory. 
 
Bologna, on the other hand, is winless on the road this year and has only won one of their 13 away games overall. Bologna and its traveling supporters will be hoping for a better outcome after a losing performance in their most recent Serie A matchup against Empoli. Bologna has been scored against in 6 of their previous 6 games, allowing opponents to score a total of 8 goals.
Juventus vs Bologna: Probable Playing XI
Juventus: Wojciech Szczesny, Danilo, Leonardo Bonucci, Bremer, Juan Cuadrado, Manuel Locatelli, Leandro Paredes, Adrien Rabiot, Filip Kostic, Dusan Vlahovic, Arkadiusz Milik.
 
Bologna: Lukasz Skorupski, Lorenzo De Silvestri, John Lucum, Stefan Posch, Andrea Cambiaso, Gary Medel, Jerdy Schouten, Riccardo Orsolini, Roberto Soriano, Musa Barrow, Marko Arnautovic.
Juventus vs Bologna: Prediction
Juventus' 2022–23 Serie A campaign has gotten off to a terrible start under Massimiliano Allegri, as they enter this match after losing their most recent game, a few weeks prior to the international break, 1-0 away to newly promoted Monza. Bologna, led by Sinisa Mihailovic, has struggled with their team thus far, with only one victory in their first seven games.
At the conclusion of the game, we predict that Juventus will have won 2-1 with relative ease.
Prediction: Juventus 2-1 Bologna
Juventus vs Bologna: Live Stream
In the UK, BT Sports holds exclusive rights to broadcast Serie A matches. Matches from the Serie A may be seen live by subscribers on the BT Sport Player and app because BT Sport holds the rights to broadcast them in the UK.