Over four-decade ago, Edmonton 1978 Commonwealth Games was the first time when a wrestler from Sonipat’s Nahri village – located on the Haryana-Delhi border – made it to the CWG podium.

Nahri’s Satbir Singh won gold in 62kg. In the 1982 Brisbane Games, Mahabir Singh won gold in 52kg. He also competed in two Olympics (1980 & 84).

After Mahabir, it was Olympian Amit Kumar, who won gold in 2014 Glasgow CWG.

Now, in Birmingham 2022 CWG, the village’s latest wrestling sensation Tokyo Olympics silver medallist Ravi Dahiya added another medal to his kitty. He won gold in the 57kg freestyle event.

Over the years, Nahri village has produced over hundreds of national and international-level wrestlers. But there was a time when the village was engulfed by drug menace, almost losing its sheen in the rural sport.    

In the early 90’s, drug addiction was a serious problem in the village, leading to many deaths. But wrestling came as a saviour.

“Being a bordering village to Delhi, there was a time when the village youth were influenced by the urban life and subsequently leading to a drug addiction in the area. But thankfully because of wrestling we were able to fight back with the drug menace and saved our youth,” says Mahabir Singh.  

Apart from the pride, the incentives, especially the government jobs and cash awards, associated with wrestling have been the driving force behind attracting the youth to the rural sport again.

“During early 90’s the drug addiction was such a serious issue in our village that it even led to many young deaths,” recalls Kallu phelwan, whose wrestling career was cut short because of an accident. “It was wrestling that saved the village from the drug menace. The kids were again in the mud pit, hoping for a better future. In the last two decades, over a hundred of youth from the village have got jobs in various government departments under the sports quota,” adds Kallu phelwan.  

“Now everyone in Nahri takes pride in the village’s wrestling legacy,” says Hansraj, who runs two akhadas – the traditional wrestling centre – on the outskirts of the village.