Enter the Dragon: Chinese Invasion 
of Tibet continues .....

The language, customs and traditions of Tibet, which reflect the true nature and identity of the Tibetan people are gradually fading away. As a consequence, Tibetans are increasingly being assimilated into the larger Chinese population. 

In Tibet, repression continues to increase with numerous, unimaginable and gross violations of human rights, denial of religious freedom, and the politicization of religious issues. All these take place as a result of the Chinese government’s lack of respect for the Tibetan people. 

These are major obstacles the Chinese government deliberately puts in the way of its policy unifying nationalities which discriminate between the Tibetan and Chinese peoples. Therefore, I urge the Chinese government to bring an immediate halt to such policies.

Although the areas inhabited by Tibetan people are referred to by such different names as autonomous region, autonomous prefectures and autonomous counties, the are autonomous in name only; they actually have no real autonomy. Instead, they are governed by people who are oblivious of the regional situation, and are driven by what Mao Zedong called ‘Han chauvinism’. As a result, this so-called autonomy has not brought the concerned nationalities any tangible benefit. 

Disingenuous policies that are not in tune with reality are causing enormous harm not only to the respective nationalities, but also to the unity and stability of the Chinese nation. It is important for the Chinese government, as advised by Deng Xiaoping, to ‘seek truth from facts’ in the real sense of the term.

The Chinese government severely criticizes me when I raise questions about the welfare of the Tibetan people before the international community. Until we reach a mutually beneficial solution, I have a historical and moral responsibility to continue to speak out freely on their behalf. However, it is common knowledge that I have been in semi-retirement since the political leadership of the Tibetan Diaspora has been directly elected by the general Tibetan populace.

To be continued...