With population of over 1.4 billion people, India still remains the largest country to have never made a single appearance at the FIFA World Cup. Indian national team came closest to making an entry in the prestigious 
tournament's 92 year old history in 1950, just after the country's independence. But since then the opportunities have been few and far in between. 

The sport has reached new peaks in terms of the number of fans around the world who are acquainted with the 'beautiful game'. More than 80 million of Indians actively follow the sport today and hope that one day the national team would be capable enough to fight for the biggest accolades on the world stage. 

One such person is Mr. Ranjit Bajaj who's the director and owner of the prestigious 'Minerva Academy FC' based out of Chandigarh, Punjab. Minerva and Mr. Bajaj have provided the National team with more than 175+ players
across all age groups. He has now taken up the mammoth responsibility of preparing a group of players capable enough to qualify for the FIFA World Cup. With excessive quality scouting and football camps across pan India 
the academy has identified the best U-12 players, 'World Cup 2034 Batch' is what they call them as they have a target to make it to the global footballing stage in the year 2034. 

The young fearless boys of the 'World Cup batch' are set to face their biggest challenge to date come this April, where they are set to participate in the prestigious 'Mina Cup' going to take place in Dubai where they will be up against the likes of PSG, Manchester City and Zenit Saint Petersburg academy teams. By playing a tournament of such high caliber 'Minerva' and 'World Cup batch' are set to become the first club from the country to compete for honors at such a high level. 
The young guns live and train at 'Minerva Academy' under the guidance of some of the best coaches in the country, and they already are a beaming source of vigor and pride for millions.

For regular updates follow 'Minerva academy' on social media channels.