Background

Current paradigms for predicting weight loss in response to energy restriction have general validity but a subset of individuals fail to respond adequately despite documented diet adherence. Patients in the bottom 20% for rate of weight loss following a hypocaloric diet (diet-resistant) have been found to have less type I muscle fibres and lower skeletal muscle mitochondrial function, leading to the hypothesis that physical exercise may be an effective treatment when diet alone is inadequate. In this study, we aimed to assess the efficacy of exercise training on mitochondrial function in women with obesity with a documented history of minimal diet-induced weight loss.

Methods

From over 5000 patient records, 228 files were reviewed to identify baseline characteristics of weight loss response from women with obesity who were previously classified in the top or bottom 20% quintiles based on rate of weight loss in the first 6 weeks during which a 900 kcal/day meal replacement was consumed. A subset of 20 women with obesity were identified based on diet-resistance (n=10) and diet sensitivity (n=10) to undergo a 6-week supervised, progressive, combined aerobic and resistance exercise intervention.

Findings

Diet-sensitive women had lower baseline adiposity, higher fasting insulin and triglycerides, and a greater number of ATP-III criteria for metabolic syndrome. Conversely in diet-resistant women, the exercise intervention improved body composition, skeletal muscle mitochondrial content and metabolism, with minimal effects in diet-sensitive women. In-depth analyses of muscle metabolomes revealed distinct group- and intervention- differences, including lower serine-associated sphingolipid synthesis in diet-resistant women following exercise training.

Interpretation

Exercise preferentially enhances skeletal muscle metabolism and improves body composition in women with a history of minimal diet-induced weight loss. These clinical and metabolic mechanism insights move the field towards better personalised approaches for the treatment of distinct obesity phenotypes.

Funding

Canadian Institutes of Health Research (CIHR-INMD and FDN-143278; CAN-163902; CIHR PJT-148634).

Sources: https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S2352396422003735