On 2 July, a 21-year-old student of science attempted to end his life at the Bhagwantrao Mandloi Agricultural College in the southern Madhya Pradesh (MP) town of Khandwa. 
Deepak Patidar, a first year BSc student, wrote a note accusing senior students of committing “ghatiya” (disgusting) acts in the name of ragging and then went on to consume a small bottle of insecticide.  
The college administration found 18 senior students involved in ragging, the Indian term for hazing. Ten were expelled from the college and hostel for a year.
Madhya Pradesh has recorded the second highest number of cases of ragging, behind only Uttar Pradesh. According to the anti-ragging cell of the University Grants Commission (UGC), in the 10-year period from 1 January 2013 to 30 April 2022, 832 complaints of ragging were recorded in Uttar Pradesh (UP), followed by 666 in MP. 
Medical colleges accounted for a large percentage of these—in 10 years, 126 cases of ragging were reported from UP’s medical colleges, and 101 in MP.
According to the UGC’s regulations on curbing the menace of ragging in higher educational institutions, released in 2009 and amended last in 2016, ragging may include any act of physical or mental abuse (including bullying and exclusion) targeted at another student (fresher or otherwise) on the ground of colour, race, religion, caste, ethnicity, gender, sexual orientation, appearance, nationality, regional origins, linguistic identity, place of birth, place of residence or economic background.  
Despite the Supreme Court-ordered notification of anti-ragging regulations and formation of mandatory anti-ragging committees in every higher educational institution, the practice is far from eliminated, students, teachers and activists conceded. While newer forms of bullying by senior students, including online harassment, came to light during the pandemic, colleges began to once again witness a rise in ragging complaints as in-person classes resumed.   
Read more - https://article-14.com/post/sleep-deprivation-slapping-miming-sexual-acts-inside-the-murky-world-of-ragging-in-indian-colleges-6321389fe534f