How a humble piece of fabric from colonial Madras became a symbol of the sacred way of life for a tribal community in West Africa is nothing but amazing. 

The Kalabari tribe of Nigeria, living in the eastern Niger Delta region, is renowned for its exquisite and vibrant culture, a hiresult of their exposure to internal Nigerian trade routes and Portuguese exploration for centuries.

The clothing worn by the Kalabari is a reflection of their unique way of life. To create a distinctive outfit, they combined their ancient tradition with the finest of the foreign borrowed artefacts. The most notable of these treasures is Madras. 
Madras is the name of ancient light cotton fabric with a distinctive grid pattern and a tartan design influenced by Scotland - named after the place of origin - Madras, the erstwhile name of Chennai, Tamil Nadu.
The East India Company founded a trade office in Madraspatnam (Madras) in the middle of the 17th century when they were frantically looking for high-quality textiles. Over time, they transformed the burgeoning weaving region into a highly productive business.
The gorgeous and genuine Madras cloth, which quickly rose to popularity and significance among numerous African and Middle Eastern ethnic groups, brought in enormous profits for the European traders and became a notable artifact for the trans-Atlantic slave trade.

The Portuguese introduced Madras to Nigeria, one of the intermediaries in the transatlantic slave trade, and left behind a lasting impact. The Kalabari tribe referred to it as Injiri, which is the indigenous pronunciation of the word India. 
The Kalabari chiefs readily accepted Injiri and used this authentic and finest material from India to make their ceremonial garb. It immediately took on a special significance in Kalabari culture and served as a metaphor for the journey from the womb to the tomb..

Interestingly, the Indian Madras plays a significant role in a Kalabari funeral ritual as well. It serves as clothing for mourning, a covering for the walls of funeral homes, and even a way to dress the dead.