This law comes with several arguments having its own merits and demerits at the same time.
At present, many girls are forced to drop out of studies for marriage. So, making the minimum legal age for marriage as 21 will allow them to continue their studies. Thereby 
many more women will go for higher education. 
Here the demerit comes that it does not consider girls who don’t have opportunity or not interested in continuing their education. Another argument against the proposal is that some girls from especially conservative, regressive and patriarchal families escape their families' clutches by choosing to marry a person of their choice after turning 18 years old.
It is generally believed that this law will be good only for carrier oriented girls . To make sure this law benefits to all females, it has been suggested that government should increase the
budget for girls education and make the education mandatory and free education to all the girls especially belonging to rural background or those who are deprived to access of education till the age of 21 years.
This move can be stated as a step towards gender neutrality because it will make minimum legal age for marriage the same for girls and boys. But , it cannot be ignored that this initiative had been proposed previously also.
In 2018, the Law Commission of India had suggested decreasing the minimum legal age of men from 21 to 18 years and recommended keeping both the genders minimum legal age to marry as 18 years. At the age of 18 ,where people of all genders are legally allowed to vote and drive, they should be allowed to get married as well .
The whole point of minimum age of marriage is to prevent child marriage. But activists point out that patriarchy and poverty drive child marriage . Child marriage takes place despite being outlawed. This is because child marriages are considered by many including Panchayat and local officers as an accepted practice . So simply raising the age of marriage isn’t going to stop child marriage.