In the film Turning Red (2022), a young 13-year-old girl, Meilin “Mei” Lee, turns into a red panda whenever she has strong emotions: when she is angry, when she is sad and when she is excited.

She begins to believe that strong emotions are embarrassing and tries to suppress her true self.

In the film Encanto (2021), the multi-generational Madrigal family keep their emotions from each other, causing their house to crumble.

As in Inside Out (2015) and Frozen (2013) before them, in these films the traditional animation villain is gone, and the “villain” becomes the character’s emotions.

Only when the characters learn to embrace all of their feelings – and realise they aren’t villains in our stories – can they become their true, authentic selves.

Emotions are important
A sense of self is the way a person thinks about their traits, their purpose and the beliefs that define their identity.

Developing a sense of self is vital not only for the developing child, but across the lifespan. A strong positive sense of self is integral for well-being.

An important part of this sense of self and living authentically is the ability to feel and express all of our emotions. Yet many parents, like Mei’s mother Ming in Turning Red, struggle to live authentically, often putting on a brave face and hiding their inner turmoil.

Suppressing our fears and self-doubts places us at greater risk for chronic illness and depression, whereas opening up is good for the body, mind and soul.

When parents don’t demonstrate how to express and give voice to feelings, children are taught to suppress their distress. This restricts their ability to grow and form safe and healthy attachments.

Self-compassion involves being kind to yourself and recognising flaws are common to us all. In Encanto, the sisters Mirabel, Isabela and Luisa all believe they need to suppress their emotions, and they judge themselves for having difficult feelings at all.

Read more - https://theconversation.com/you-cant-be-happy-all-the-time-how-encanto-and-turning-red-can-help-families-wrestle-with-anger-and-sadness-181782