
Many industries are understandably cautious at the moment, as they steel themselves for more tricky economic times ahead. But it seems that nobody told the English Premier League – which has just broken its own record for spending money on football players – to the tune of £1.9 billion.
Of the top 20 most expensive European club signings this summer, 15 were in the Premier League (four were in Spain’s La Liga, and one in Germany’s Bundesliga). Overall, the Premier League spent more than the top divisions in France, Spain and Italy combined.
This level of spending is not new. In the 2017-2018 season, the Premier League spent £1.86 billion, equivalent to more than £2 billion today. But what might be different this time is the potential impact on increasing the level of competition throughout the league.
For the (financial) value of playing talent is now more evenly distributed across Premier League clubs, which in theory could lead to more competitive balance. Figures suggest a large net transfer of spending by clubs outside of the “big six” (Manchester City, Manchester United, Chelsea, Arsenal, Tottenham Hotspur and Liverpool).
In particular, West Ham, Newcastle and newly promoted Nottingham Forest have been some of the bigger spenders, to the extent that the estimated market value of Premier League clubs is now more evenly distributed than in any of the last ten seasons.
Historically, more even distribution of playing talent means a more even distribution of league points, so the competitive balance of the league may well be about to improve.
That’s all very well for the 20 clubs in the top tier of English football, but the gulf between the Premier League and the second tier, the Championship, is now larger than ever. The gap in transfer spending is now £1.3bn, three times what it was ten seasons ago.
Read more: https://theconversation.com/premier-leagues-record-spending-could-help-make-english-football-fairer-and-more-competitive-but-it-depends-on-liz-truss-190271