Global Friends of Afghanistan accused the UN Office of providing an incomplete report on the "disastrous" human rights situation and killing of civilians in Afghanistan.

This organization said that UNAMA's failure to mention the Taliban and the Haqqani network in this report helps the Taliban regime escape from the burden of responsibility for the killings.

Jason Chris Hawke, director of Global Friends of Afghanistan, has published a statement saying that the United Nations Political Assistant in Afghanistan has missed a great opportunity to provide a more accurate and complete report on the "disastrous and deadly situation of human rights and security in Afghanistan". Mentioning the names of terrorist networks The person responsible for the insecurity and violation of human rights in Afghanistan refrained from using words such as "Taliban, Haqqani" or "Taliban-Haqqani terrorist network" in the report.

According to Mr Hawke, the report's refusal to use these words allows "known international terrorists, their supporters and partners within the Taliban regime - the Haqqani network" to escape responsibility for their behavior in Afghanistan.

In this announcement, it is stated that the producers of this report should have explained that the statistics provided by Afghans are lower than the actual number of cases of violations of human rights and agriculture in Afghanistan.

The inability of this team to travel freely in Afghanistan and the fear that Afghans have of talking about human rights violations in this country has led to the fact that the statistics provided about human rights violations and murders are much lower. A regime that has no domestic legitimacy and is not recognized by any country has allowed it to review and comment on the report. At the same time, this regime make excuses for their failure to provide security and refuse to accept responsibility for the crimes committed and human rights violations. took over, to be mentioned in the report under the name "Islamic Emirate of Afghanistan".