The beginning of organization of events on the Fort was made by hoisting the tricolour on the fort on 26th January 2009 by the Rohtas Police. A 3 day camp was organized under the leadership of the then SDPO, Dehri, Mithilesh Kumar and Asst Commandant of CRPF 62nd Bn, Prakash Chandra. More than 500 people from villages on the hills participated in the event. A Parade was organized on the fort and was followed by cultural programme and community lunch. The fort had not seen regular flag hoisting for years, and thus the beginning was a great symbolic change. It gradually has become a tradition and now continues with increasing participation of the community every year

Conduct of Parliamentary Elections, 2009


As times passed, the Operation on the Hills continued along with the Community Policing Schemes. The Parliamentary elections were to be held in the district on 16th April, 2009. Conducting free and fair Elections on the Kaimur Hills was a great challenge for the police. It was believed to be very risky to carry out police operations on the Hills. The police had been severely demoralized by repeated losses from naxals. During several previous elections the booths used to be shifted down hill at a large distance from the voting population to ensure safety of the polling parties. It was very important to conduct election on the hills to restore faith of the people in the capability of the state administration, as well as to promote democracy in naxal affected area by larger public participation in polls. To ensure peaceful elections several night camps by the forces in remote villages on the Kaimur Hills had already been organized in the preceding months as Operation Vidhwansa. During these operations which were meticulously planned for hours and days to ensure minimal damage to police side, the police camped in the remote villages on  Kaimur Hills and interacted with the villagers to restore confidence. The organisation of  Sone Mahotsava had also led to an increase in trust for the police amongst the general public and especially the marginalised sections including the hill tribals

To be continued.