During the national conference Focus on Breast Cancer in Friuli, the participants also discussed the latest therapies introduced during the state, a year full of novelties for the treatment of breast cancer, said Prof. Michelino De Laurentiis Director of the Institute&#39;s Department of Breast and Thoracic Pulmonary Tumors of Naples Among these, adjuvant therapy with antihormonal agents and the inhibitor of cyclin-dependent kinases Abemaciclib should be noted. However, this is a treatment that is not yet reimbursed in Italy. Important data have also been obtained in the increase in survival of metastatic carcinoma. The drug Ribociclib in association with the aromatase inhibitor Letrozole has proved to be a winning combination in some sub-groups of patients with so-called luminal carcinoma where an unprecedented number of months of median survival has been recorded. Finally, encouraging signs also arrive in the field of triple negative breast cancer which the most aggressive form of tumor For this segment of patients we have encouraging news coming from immunotherapy concludes Prof. Lucia Del Mastro Coordinator of the Breast Unit of the IRCCS San Martino in Genoa After being used in the treatment of melanoma and other carcinomas it is highlighting the its potential also in both advanced and early stage breast cancer In addition to the data we already knew about atezolizumab, new data on pembrolizumab are added. As regards advanced HER positive disease, excellent results are obtained from the use of the immunoconjugate trastuzumab deruxtecan. of a very effective treatment that uses an antibody to which chemotherapy is linked. The latter is conveyed directly to the tumor site where it is released, facilitating greater activity and limiting toxicity. Another important novelty is that relating to the tyrosine kinase inhibitor Tucatinib in combination with trastuzumab and capecitabine The combination of the three drugs has demonstrated good efficacy in the treatment of patients with brain metastases from HER positive carcinoma