By Sayantan Ghosh

Kolkata: The Trinamool Congress party and supremo Mamata Banerjee have witnessed many ups and down in their journey. The main conflict inside the TMC has been about who is the second in command or number two.

This is the story of all the political parties running on the image of one individual. The recent Partha Chatterjee and Bengal SSC scam row have devastated the conscience of the citizens of Bengal. But this row also made one thing clear Abhishek Banerjee, the nephew of Mamata Banerjee is the undisputed number two in the party. 

In a significant development on Thursday, Bengal chief Minister and Trinamool Congress supremo Mamata Banerjee removed one of his closest lieutenants, Partha Chatterjee, from all three Cabinet positions. Later, in the evening, the nephew of Mamata Banerjee and the all-India general secretary of the TMC, Abhishek Banerjee, removed Partha Chatterjee from all the five organisational posts.

For a leader like Mamata Banerjee to distance herself from the closest confidence is not a well-known act. In the past, Banerjee has stood strong against her party colleagues and even IPS and IAS officials when the central agencies have put charges against them. This decision by Mamata Banerjee shows that in the course of time, several things have changed in her politics and within her own organisation.

Partha Chatterjee, a long-serving minister in the Banerjee Cabinet, was taken into custody on July 23 after ED agents found Rs 20 crore in cash at the home of his alleged close aide Arpita Mukherjee. According to the investigative authorities, the claimed sum, which is piled up in her home, is related to irregularities in the hiring of teachers, clerks, and personnel in state-run institutions. Cash was once again retrieved from one of Mukherjee's properties in this incident. The arrest of Mukherjee was caused by the seizure of cash and jewellery. Cash and jewellery worth more than 50 crores have already been confiscated at two locations. In recent years, Kolkata has experienced its largest cash seizure.

Read more
https://www.newsdrum.in/analysis/west-bengal-why-removal-of-partha-chatterjee-shows-the-rise-of-abhishek-banerjee-in-bengal-politics-68614.html