Carlos Alcaraz Garfia scripted history by becoming the first ever teenager to be ranked no.1 in the world. He achieved this feat after defeating Norwegian Casper Ruud in the final of the US Open on Sunday.
The new world no.1 created plenty of records, most notably breaking the record for the youngest ever men's singles no.1 in history. He broke Leyton Hewitt’s record by getting there at the age of 19 years, 4 months and 7 days. He also became the fourth ever Spaniard to be on the top spot after legends like Rafael Nadal, Carlos Moya and his own coach Juan Carlos Ferrero. Further he becomes the sixth active player on the Tour who can call themselves the best in the world and the 28th overall since ATP started the ranking system in 1973.
The rise and rise of the young Spaniard
Carlos Alcaraz Garfia’s rise can be described as anything but meteoric. The 19-year old has risen from 141st in the world at the end of 2020 to current world no.1. 
His breakthrough came in 2021 where he qualified for the main draw of the Australian Open and followed it up by being the youngest ever match winner at the Madrid Open, breaking Rafael Nadal’s 2004 record. To cap off a successful season, Alcaraz reached the quarterfinals of the US Open becoming the youngest ever quarterfinalist in the Open Era in New York.
What started in 2021 was consolidated in 2022. Alcaraz won his first ATP title at the Rio Open in February. He then went on to win his first hard court and ATP 1000 Masters title in Miami. But his biggest achievement came when he won both the Barcelona Open and the Madrid Open in the clay court season. In Madrid he defeated Rafael Nadal and Novak Djokovic on successive days before winning the final against Zverev which made him the youngest to defeat three top five players at a tournament. 
With below par performances, as per his standards, at Roland Garros and Wimbledon, Carlos Alcaraz Garfia has come back stronger to take the Flushing Meadows title and will look to end the year ranked no.1.