King Richard
Reinaldo Green directed this movie abour the father of Venus and Serena Williams, two of the best tennis players. The syonpsis of the movies reads, "Armed with a clear vision and a brazen, 78-page plan, Richard Williams is determined to write his two daughters, Venus and Serena, into history. Training on tennis courts in Compton, Calif., Richard shapes the girls' unyielding commitment and keen intuition. Together, the Williams family defies seemingly insurmountable odds and the prevailing expectations laid before them." Will Smith stars as Richard.

Licorice Pizza
Paul Thomas Anderson and Dylan Brown directed the movie. It's about June a creative girl who decides to creatively fix a amusement park using her bright imagination. The movie stars Alana Haim, Cooper Hoffman, Sean Penn, Tom Waits, Bradley Cooper and  Benny Safdie

Nightmare Alley
Guillermo del Toro directed the movie.It is set in New York in the 1940s. The synopsis of the movie is as follows, 
"In 1940s New York, down-on-his-luck Stanton Carlisle endears himself to a clairvoyant and her mentalist husband at a traveling carnival. Using newly acquired knowledge, Carlisle crafts a golden ticket to success by swindling the elite and wealthy. Hoping for a big score, he soon hatches a scheme to con a dangerous tycoon with help from a mysterious psychiatrist who might be his most formidable opponent yet." The movie stars Bradley Cooper, Cate Blanchett, Rooney Maara, William Dafoe and others.

The Power of the Dog
Benedict Cumberbatch stars as a patriarchal rancher and is cruel towards his brother's family particularly.
The movie a staunch critique to toxic masculinity. Jane Campion has directed the movie and the movie received the most nominations this year.

West Side Story
Steven Spielberg directed the movie and its based on a musical by Arthur Laurents which in turn was inspired bt William Shakespeare's play Romeo and Juliet. Its love at first sight between Tony and Maria in the movie. Their burgeoning romance helps to fuel the fire between the warring Jets and Sharks -- two rival gangs vying for control of the streets.The movie stars Ansel Elgort, Ariana DeBose, David Alvarez, Mike Faist, Rita Moreno, Rachel Zegler and others