Italy kicked up their current UEFA Nations League campaign against old rivals Germany on Saturday evening in Bologna.

Italy failed to qualify for the World Cup in the last two group stage matches, drawing 1-1 at home with Switzerland and drawing 0-0 on the road in Northern Ireland and the loss at home in the playoff semi-finals against North Macedonia, thereby knocking out the entire country.

This team is tactically adept and has excellent synergy, with numerous players capable of taking up playmaking duties in the middle.

Germany had won eight consecutive games before a 1-1 tie with the Netherlands in late March. Hansi Flick is attempting to replicate Bayern Munich's concept for the national team, but he requires a player like Lewandowski to play in the attacking midfield. attackers.As previously said, they play powerful, efficient, and with a high level of energy, akin to Bayern when Flick led this squad to the European throne.

Italy vs Germany: Probable Playing XI

Italy: Gianluigi Donnarumma, Cristiano Biraghi, Giorgio Chiellini, Francesco Acerbi, Mattia De Sciglio; Sandro Tonali, Bryan Cristante, Matteo Pessina; Giacomo Raspadori, Gianluca Scamacca, Nicolo Zaniolo

Germany:Manuel Neuer; David Raum, Nico Schlotterbeck, Antonio Rudiger, Thilo Kehrer; Ilkay Gundogan, Jamal Musiala; Leroy Sane, Kai Havertz, Thomas Muller; Timo Werner

Italy vs Germany: Prediction

Few would have imagined such difficult times for the European champions so soon after their crowning success last July, but morale-depleted Italy is now a shell of its former self and is facing a difficult adjustment.

Germany is well ahead of the pack in terms of development and can score from a number of sources, so they should win their first Nations League match before facing old adversaries England next week.

Prediction: Italy 0-1 Germany

Italy vs Germany:Telecast and Live Stream

The match will be broadcast on Premier Sports 1, with coverage starting at 7.20 p.m. In the United Kingdom, a monthly membership starts at £9.99.

Premier Sports subscribers will be able to watch the game live on mobile and tablet devices via the Premier Player app.