As various major gaming studios have begun shifting production of some of their major titles to mobile platforms, Ubisoft has also joined in the trend. Ubisoft has decided to shift one of its most popular multiplayer games, Tom Clancy’s Rainbow Six to mobile platform.
 
Rainbow Six Mobile follows a similar format and gameplay to its PC and console counterparts. It’s a 5v5 tactical shooter that pits two teams against one another. But unlike the PC and console version, the game is planned to be a free to play title and its beta test went live back on September 12. 
 
 The beta test also features a total of 16 operators in the game which are picked from Siege. It is also set to bring in content from previous alpha versions of the game – including the Bomb and Secure Area game modes, and the Bank and Border maps.
 
The official Rainbow Six Mobile tweet has stated that the developers would be adding more content to the game in the upcoming days of the Beta test. This includes the unlock and progression systems for Operators, as well as daily challenges and a free battle pass. The developers also stated that the Beta is only a “work-in-progress” version of the title.
 
 
 Rainbow Six Mobile began its Closed Beta test on September 12 in seven countries (USA, Brazil, Canada, Mexico, Singapore, Philippines, and India). The developers mentioned that they would test live operations, i.e., limited-time events, challenges, and various game settings/controls during the testing period.
 
 The official Twitter handle of the game confirmed that Ubisoft has rolled out invitations for some pre-registered users through Google Play in selected Closed Beta regions. Officials also stated that they are looking to increase the number of invitations over the coming days.
 
 
Players who wish to experience the game can pre-register on the Google Play Store. The Install option will pop up once they receive an invite. During the testing phase, the game's size for Android devices is 910 MB and it will take 773 MB of in-game downloads. 
 
 
 