By BestMediaInfo Bureau 

To understand how to allocate budgets to get maximised ROI, Nielsen has released its first-ever ROI report that analyses the database of nearly 150,000 observations of marketing ROI and database of client-supplied media plans.

Based on the findings of the report, Nielsen has identified three important lessons:

1. Media spend needs to be between 1% and 9% of revenue to stay competitive

Globally, the average brand reinvests 3.8% of its revenues into advertising. But if an underdog wants to compete with the established players for share, it requires proportionally more resources to match their media spend in absolute terms. Conversely, if you’re a larger brand, you should skew to the lower end of the range. Asia-Pacific receives 15% less ROI for its ad spending than the global average.

2. Overspending isn’t as problematic as underspending

In a study of media plans provided by clients of all sizes, about 25% of the channel-level investments were too high to maximise ROI—by a median amount of 32% extra spend. Cutting back the extra spend would certainly improve channel ROI—but only by a modest 4%. And in the process, brands would lose significant sales volume. Nielsen observed that 50% of planned media channel investments were too low to achieve maximum ROI. The median underinvestment level was 52%—a large gap that most brands won’t be able to close in a single planning cycle. But brands that close the gap can improve ROI by a median of 50.3%. In cases of overspending, brands should optimise their channel mix instead of slashing the budget.

3. Underspending is rampant

Though many brands are already spending most of their budgets on TV, there are still many cases where brands are underinvested in the channel. And for display and video, over half of the plans show underinvestment, so marketers should pay close attention here. According to Nielsen, 66% of plans are underinvested in digital video, 60% in display, 43% in social and 31% in TV.

Read the full story here:- https://bestmediainfo.com/2022/07/brands-media-spend-needs-to-be-between-19-of-revenue-overspending-isn-t-as-problematic-as-underspending-nielsen