By BestMediaInfo bureau
On October 15, MullenLowe Lintas Group CCO and Chairman, Amer Jaleel took to LinkedIn to share his dismay over Motilal Oswal Financial Services’ latest in-house campaign for not giving credit to the agency for the original idea and copying the creative.
Link to a similar campaign Mullen Lintas created in 2017 for the brand:  https://youtu.be/yJJZSp_y1aI
Following this, several industry leaders came in support of Jaleel’s clamour of clients not giving due credit to the original creator of the idea. 
Come today, Motilal Oswal, Managing Director and CEO of the company, wrote on Jaleel’s LinkedIn post questioning why Jaleel didn’t first approach the brand before publicly calling them out for copying ideas. He also mentioned that Jaleel’s other clients would definitely take note of his ‘anti-client’ approach.
He commented, “Mr Jaleel, I don’t want to respond about this in public on merit although I would have loved to since u have shared it in the public domain. I respect you and your agency for doing a good job. Don’t you think that a good business practice is to first raise with the client and discuss it? My entrepreneurial experience of 35 years has taught me to first talk to the client for any issue to be resolved amicably rather than going into the public domain. I am sure your other clients would take note of your one-sided, harsh and anti-client approach.” (sic)
Mullen LoweLintas Group was appointed by Motilal Oswal Financial Services to work on their creative campaigns on a project basis in 2017. The last work created by the agency for them was in January 2022. Between 2017 and 2022, the agency worked on seven projects for the brand.
When Jaleel’s post created a stir in the industry, it took no time for the former Chief Marketing Officer of Motilal Oswal Financial Services, Ramnik Chhabra to respond to his post. He wrote that they had a great five-years long partnership and have always given credit to the agency. 
Read more https://bestmediainfo.com/2022/10/anticlient-approach-motilal-oswal-on-amer-jaleel-publicly-accusing-them-of-copying-an-idea