On 7 July, Muhammad Raafi, 34, was driving from his home in Srinagar to the Lal Chowk area in the city centre when his cellphone rang. It was a friend, asking him to read a piece published in that morning’s edition of Rising Kashmir, one of Kashmir’s most circulated dailies with an aggregate social media subscriber base of over 1 million. He planned to read it later, but the friend persisted—Raafi had been named in the article. “He was shivering,” Raafi recounted. 


The journalist who has reported for Vice, TRT World, Al Jazeera, The Wire and Article 14, among others, parked and began to read. His first reaction was shock. The opinion piece named 11 Kashmiri journalists as being terrorist sympathisers. Raafi’s  name was among them.  


With the headline ‘Vultures of single narrative feasting on misery’, the article called  these journalists “anti-Constitution, pro-Pakistan single-narrative peddlers” and   “anti-state narrative builders”, supported by international and Indian media organisations. 


The primary target of the article was Sana Irshad Mattoo, a Reuters photojournalist who was stopped by immigration officials at Delhi airport on 2 July and refused permission to travel to France, with no reason given. Mattoo, 28, won the 2022 Pulitzer prize in feature photography with three other Reuters photographers, for their coverage of the Covid-19 pandemic in India.


The other journalists named in the piece were mostly independent journalists, writing for digital publications in India and foreign publications and websites. They viewed the publication of the piece as Kashmir’s beleaguered local media organisations, subdued by the administration’s carrot and stick approach and its new ‘media policy’, throwing independent fellow-journalists to the wolves.           


The article, carrying the author byline ‘Majeed Ahmad,’ said these 11 journalists denied the existence of terrorists, and covered up terrorist violence by “spreading misinformation” through their writing. 


Raafi told Article 14 that the piece had put the journalists’ lives in danger, “particularly those who are independent journalists and don't have a support system of an organisation.” 


Read more - https://article-14.com/post/a-newspaper-op-ed-calls-journalists-terror-sympathisers-paints-a-target-on-the-backs-of-what-is-left-of-kashmir-s-free-press--62cf8d66468eb