Fresh off her marriage to fellow Bollywood actor Ranbir Kapoor, British-Indian actress Alia Bhatt has cemented her status as one of India’s most elite celebrities. The 29-year-old actress made her acting debut in 1999 with the movie Sangharsh, which is based on the American movie Silence of the Lambs. She was five years old when she took on that role. Bhatt was born into a family known for their acting, directing, and writing prowess in Hindi cinema, also known as Bollywood. 1. Dear zindagiDear Zindagi stars Alia Bhatt and Shah Rukh Khan in a classic coming-of-age story. Bhatt portrays Kaira, a talented cinematographer stuck watching as her ex-boyfriend becomes engaged to someone else.q she is unhappy with her career and living situation, so she decides it is time to find a psychologist.2. HighwayReleased in 2014, Highway is a road drama based on a television series. The daughter (Bhatt) of a Delhi business tycoon is kidnapped one day before her wedding. 3. Udta Punjabkick-starting her career to a new level. Set in Punjab, near the border of Pakistan and India, it was inspired by the real-life issues of drug usage within Punjab, and thus the film was subject to strict censorship by the Censor Board.4. RRRThe movie is set in the early 1920s when India still is a colonial power under the British and dramatizes the lives of two Indian revolutionaries.5.RaaziThe movie is set immediately before the Indo-Pakistani War of 1971, a conflict sparked by the Bangladeshi liberation movement. Bhatt portrays Sehmat, the daughter of a spy for the Indian government. 6.Gangubai KathiawadiThe 2022 crime drama Gangubai Kathiawadi is based on a true story. Once, on the streets of Mumbai, a woman named Gangubai Kathiawadi was sold by her husband to a brothel. After she began to be exploited by men, she turned to a mafia of Mumbai.7. Gully boyIn the slums of Mumbai, it does not seem like dreams can come true easily. But in Gully Boy, one boy named Murad (Ranveer Singh) aspires to become a rapper. 