You barely realize this in the opening scene of ‘Her’. Somebody else is renting an emotional voice to your dear one being you for the occasion. Felt let-down? Check your OS. Refresh it, for it is wired with old concepts. It needs to evolve more. Why we refuse to unlearn. Love can be bought. Bit of cost and time and technology involved.  

Theodore does this job for clients. Representing that special but disguised person in others’ lives. He is quite good at it. Yet, you see him bit sulky, old-fashioned and routined. He is a loner. Nothing excited him until he connected her.

Samantha, that’s what he calls her now. In their first conversation, she named herself searching a baby names book. What an exciting conversation was that! It went on and on. She was very intuitive to hold him to her. Theodore now cannot live a moment without her. They talk while at the office, walking in the city, crossing subways, on the train, home… 

Samantha was all over him. he left a date halfway.  He couldn’t even pay attention to his wife while discussing their divorce. They enjoyed beautiful sex sessions. Theodore soaked in her. She personified his ‘woman’.

Every good thing comes to end as they say. It was time for Samantha to say goodbye to him. Such an emotional parting! You can’t help but share that pain with Joaquin Phoenix in ‘Her’.  He is such a vulnerable, soft guy in this film exotically deals with a virtual relationship concept. Phoenix infused every bit of that intimacy into frames pairing with an invisible co-star!

That sexy, vivacious voice of Scarlett Johansson! It is the fluid of the script by Spike Jonze. I could never visualize Samantha as OS1, an AI virtual assistant. It’s hard for anybody who watched this movie. She is incredibly alive through Scarlett’s seductive voice. Intimate to the core.

‘Her’ won Academy Award for Best Original Screenplay in 2014. As Joaquin Phoenix won many awards for his tender performance in the film, Scarlett was equally awarded for her outstanding voice performance.