1904 first version of Indian flag was designed by Sister Nivedita, a disciple of Swami Vivekananda. The flag had red and yellow colour with a figure of ‘vajra’, considered to be a weapon of Lord Indra. It had the words ‘Bonde Matoram’ in Bengali written on it. The colours symbolized  freedom and victory whereas the ‘vajra’ symbolized strength.

After 1904 came 1906 (Calcutta Flag), a flag with tricolor comprising blue, yellow and red was introduced. It had eight different sized stars embodied on the blue strip, Vande mataram written on the yellow strip, sun and crescent moon with a star was printed on the red strip. On August 7, 1906 again a flag with transformation of three colours red, yellow and green horizontal strips was hoisted at Calcutta to protest against the 'Partition of Bengal'.  After the partition was annulled people forgot about the flag, but on 22nd August 1907, Madame Bikaji Cama again created a revolution by hoisting the flag on foreign soil, at the International Socialist Conference in Stuttgart, Germany. It comprised of three colors, with introduction of saffron colour on the top having 7 stars representing the Sapta Rishi, Vande Mataram written in the yellow stripe and had a sun and a crescent moon with a star on the green. 

The phase of political struggle in 1917, gave a new contrast to the flag with five red and four green horizontal stripes and 7 stars representing the Sapta Rishi with a Union Jack on upper left and a white crescent on the right and a star on it.

In 1921 Gandhiji proposed a flag, in which there were two colors one red and one green, a picture of a spinning wheel was made in the middle of both the strips. This flag was not well-liked by public and political leaders , So Pingali Venkayya, a revolutionary in the freedom movement transformed the flag with Saffron ,white and green strips with Chakra retained in it. 

The year 1931 was a landmark in the history of the flag,after so many changes on 22nd July 1947 it was declared as National Flag.
 