Manchester United got a very sobering reality check from Simeone and his players. The mood at Old Trafford had brightened up after United romped past Tottenham, kudos to Ronaldo's hat trick. That made the Portuguese superstar the highest goal-scoring player on the planet. All eyes were on United as they marched out of the Stretford End in hopes of salvaging their season. The United faithful knew that only a win against Athletico, could add some sunshine to their rather gloomy season.

The Red Devils are already out of the FA Cup. And their hopes of a top 4finish is hanging by a thread. United had to produce a result to end their drought of 5 years without a trophy. And most importantly, to secure their position for the Champions League next season. But like most of the matches this season, United did not turn up. 

The Red Devils started brightly, and Elanga had an early chance to settle the nerves at Old Trafford. When he got at the end of Bruno's cross only to be denied by Oblak, at point-blank range. But United could never build on their impressive start and let Athletico slowly grow into the match. Madrid also had a goal rightfully ruled out for offside.

In the second half, United lacked creativity, and all the tricks and flicks of the first half disappeared into thin air. Athletico had been a constant threat at counterattacks. And Lodi, who had been a pest to United's backline in both the legs, latched onto a cross by Griezman to break United hearts. And send Athletico through to the quarter-finals of the Champions League. Although United finished the match with seven attackers on the field, the Reds never looked like troubling Simeone's men.

The United's board negligence to sign a CDM in January is starting to take a toll at Old Trafford. When United signed Varane, Sancho, and Ronaldo in the summer, United fans dreamt about building an "Empire State Building." But you cannot construct an "Empire State Building" on a six-inch slab. The current United squad is a lost cause and will sooner be the death of this historic club.