An unofficial cattle-trade ban, enforced by police and Hindu vigilantes, often acting in concert, has crippled cattle rearing and led to a flood of stray cattle in the villages of Uttar Pradesh. Roving herds of bulls and old cows graze on crops and attack people, while gaushalas meant to house them are often defunct despite Rs 1154 crore in State funding over the last five years. Farmers have moved to non-cereal crops, stopped rearing cattle and devised unique ways to protest against the government of chief minister Yogi Adityanath.

“The bull that attacked my father would have fetched Rs 15,000 in the market,” said farmer Ramu, recounting how an enraged stray bull chased and injured his father at their village Kinhoti in Sitapur district of Uttar Pradesh (UP). 

“My father had to get nine sutures on his thigh,” said Ramu, who goes by one name. “Not only are we unable to sell these animals but we are also losing precious money on medical treatment and facing losses due to damage they are causing to the crops.”

A rise in stray cattle is a prominent issue in rural UP as it prepares to elect a new state legislature in February 2022. After an unofficial clampdown on cattle trade since 2017, the government of chief minister Yogi Adityanath has frequently proclaimed the cow a holy animal and spent Rs 764 crore  crore over four years (2017-20) to build gaushalas (cow sheds ) and temporary shelters to accommodate the animals, show budget documents (here and here). An allocation of Rs 390 crore was made in the 2021-22 state budget.

The state government raised these funds through a cow cess on liquor, expressway toll collections and agricultural commodities’ markets. Additional fees of Rs 0.50 -Rs 2 were added to a bottle of beer and Indian Made Foreign Liquor while Rs 5-10 was added to their consumption in a bar. The government also added 1-2% ‘mandi’ cess and 0.5 % cess on toll tax collected by the government agencies.

Read more- https://article-14.com/post/adityanath-s-cow-protection-drive-is-killing-up-s-cattle-trade-devastating-farms-61ee213853c1a