For some years, Yorta Yorta man Jason Tamiru’s job was to help secure “thousands of bones, hundreds of people” from museums, institutions and private collectors around the world. As a cultural heritage officer for Indigenous nations in north-west Victoria, Tamiru would organise burial ceremonies and inter the remains back on Country. “It’s a duty, mate,” says the theatre director. “A role I took on with honour.”

The bones of children and babies “hit you right in the soul and the spirit”, he says. He vividly recalls the return of perhaps the most widely known Indigenous infant: the “Jaara baby”, originally buried in the hollow of a tree in the mid-19th century near the town of Charlton. Wrapped in possum skins, the baby was reportedly discovered in 1904 by an axeman felling timber. It wasn’t until almost a century later, in 2003, that the Melbourne Museum returned the remains to the Dja Dja Wurrung people.

“We put the baby back into a tree, back on Country, including all its belongings,” says Tamiru. The baby was wrapped in a new possum skin cloak and given a new rattle. Traditional tree burials are “very sacred” and reburying the bones of ancestors reconnects cultural lines by “absolutely awakening those spirits”, he says.

But the remains of thousands more ancestors are still being sought by Indigenous nations across Australia, despite the existence of a federally funded program for more than 30 years to repatriate them from collections in Australia and across the world. Their bodies ended up in universities, medical schools and in the hands of private collectors across the US, UK and Europe, but museums cannot be forced to return human remains. In Australia, more than 2,850 ancestors have been returned to custodianship of their communities, but the eight museums involved in the Indigenous repatriation program since 1990 still hold about 10,500 First Nations ancestral remains. The South Australian Museum alone collected the remains of about 4,600 mostly Indigenous people.

Read more
https://www.theguardian.com/stage/2022/may/18/we-need-to-get-them-back-home-the-fight-to-bury-aboriginal-remains-kept-in-museums