At 11pm BST on August 31st the summer transfer window will slam shut. Sitting on 12 points at the summit of the table you would assume that Arsenal have finished their transfer business for the summer and that proactive transfer business compared to previous years has helped propel us into such a strong start to the season. You’d be correct, however, there is still work to be done. I am going to briefly touch on the 2 main targets we’ve been pursuing going into the final few days of the window, in the 2 key areas that need addressing, right winger and a left central midfielder.

RW: Pedro Neto 
Every Arsenal fans favourite name on their lips right now is the tricky Portuguese winger. Not long ago these were just hopeful whispers but after David Ornstein tweeted about genuine interest this has become a more serious deal. Considering the current contract he signed in March keeps him at the club until 2027 this will not be an easy deal, nor will it be cheap. He’s my personal favourite option given his age, profile and Premier League experience but I feel unless Jorge Mendes pulls some strings we will be priced out here with Wolves wanting up to £70m.

Other alternative options we have been rumoured with include; Mykhaylo Mudryk, Marco Asensio and Yeremy Pino. It seems even if Neto is unable to be completed we have contingency plans and will be addressing the lack of support for Saka in that position.

LCM: Youri Tielemans
The rumours around CM targets seem to have gone cold for now and I believe it’s because the club feel confident in this deal. Arsenal have all the leverage with Tielemans having only 1 year left on his deal and personal terms have already reportedly been agreed with the club. Tielemans certainly has weaknesses in his defensive attributes but if we are able to protect him in the system and keep him away from our goal, his on-the-ball qualities are the standard of a world class footballer. If this happens it will be on deadline day, I’m quietly confident.

#PixstoryArsenal #Arsenal