By Abhishek Kumar

On June 28, 2022, tailor Kanhaiya Lal was brutally murdered by two Muslim men in Rajasthan’s Udaipur. The attackers made a video of the incident and shared it on social media. In their video, the two assailants termed the murder of Kanhaiya Lal as an act of revenge for the alleged derogatory remarks on Prophet Mohammad made by former BJP spokesperson Nupur Sharma. Sharma’s comments on Prophet Mohammad made during a TV debate, triggered widespread protests across the country. Her statement was also condemned by several Gulf countries, following which, the BJP expelled Nupur Sharma from the party, calling her a ‘fringe element’.

Police identified the two main accused of Kanhaiya Lal’s murder as Mohammad Riaz and Ghaus Mohammad. Seven people have been arrested so far in connection with the murder of Kanhaiya Lal. Against the backdrop of this unfortunate incident, it is being claimed that people from the Muslim community attacked the police while protesting against the arrest of the killers of Kanhaiya Lal.

Pro-BJP propaganda website OpIndia reported that an Islamic mob attacked police constable Sandeep on his neck with a sharp weapon, leaving him seriously injured (archived link). OpIndia also shared the same on its Twitter handle and Facebook page. However, the posts were later deleted.

BJP spokesperson Prashant Kumar Umrao tweeted, “While protesting the arrest of the terrorist killers of Kanhaiya Lal in Rajsamand, a mob attacked constable Sandeep with a sword, injuring his neck.” Umrao has deleted the tweet. 

(Archived link https://archive.is/rLdYN)

Kreately Media tweeted that when police officers went to arrest Goz Mohammed and Riyaz, the two main accused in Kanhaiya Lal’s murder, a mob attacked the police with stones and swords. Constable Sandeep was seriously injured in the attack and was referred to Ajmer. 

(link https://twitter.com/KreatelyMedia/status/1542127538897653761?t=t3g8MFOugawlmth0l5J40w&s=19)

Bhagva Update, RB Pathak, BJP supporter Divyam Thakur and several other handles amplified the claim on Twitter.

Fact-check

A keyword search led us to an article by ETV Bharat. As per the report, various organizations staged demonstrations in protest of the murder of tailor Kanhaiya Lal. As the crowd became rowdy, the police made attempts to control them. 

Read the full story here:- https://www.altnews.in/fact-check-after-udaipur-kanhaiyalal-murder-constable-sande