Numerous countries are experiencing a spike in cases caused by the Omicron BA.2 Sub Variant, and the World Health Organization is also concerned with it. Taking precautions for Omicron BA.2 Subvariant in India is essential due to the high levels of transferability. Additionally, in this post, you will find B.A.2 Variant Symptoms and BA.2 Variant Treatment. You can also check Omicron BA.2 cases around the globe and in India.
Several sub-variants of the original BA.1 strain of Omicron SARS-CoV-2 are currently dominant throughout the world. In addition to 28 mutations not seen in the Omicron variant, it shares many mutations with its ancestor strain.
Genomes from the Philippines have shown the presence of the new sub-variant for the first time as of November 2021. SARS-CoV-2 has now been identified in more than 40 countries worldwide, with Denmark becoming the dominant country. 

In its report of 19 January, the UKHSA designated BA.2 as a variant under investigation. To better understand the characteristics of this variant, the UKHSA is conducting laboratory and epidemiological studies as is standard practice for any new variant being investigated. 

But as opposed to BA.1, which possessed a spike deletion (H69/V70) that made it easier to track, BA.2 lacks this mutation. PCR testing cannot quickly distinguish between other COVID-19 variants and Omicron. Genomic sequencing is, therefore, necessary for monitoring.

Omicron BA.2 Variant Symptoms

Whether the subvariant causes more severe symptoms or illness is not yet known. However, there are no indications that it does. In a news briefing Wednesday, Denmark’s health officials reported that while the BA.2 variant is more contagious, there is no evidence that it affects hospitalizations or deaths. Infections tend to cause more deaths and hospitalizations than Covid-19.

Omicron BA.2 Variant Mutation

There has been an increase in BA.2 Omicron SUb Variant cases reported by WHO (World Health Organization).

India, Denmark, and the Philippines are significant countries experiencing this.

In the last 15-20 days, more than 50% of cases have been discovered with a BA2 variant.

People are getting infected, and cases increase due to its high transferability.

Last but not least, take precautions a

Source : https://dmerharyana.org/omicron-ba-2/