1. Ukraine: What Everyone Needs to Know (second edition) – Serhy Yekelchyk

This slim volume of just over 200 pages is something of a marvel. Written by a world-leading historian of Ukraine, it introduces readers to the history, geography, economy, politics, and contemporary life of the country now suffering from Russia’s invasion.

Serhy Yekelchyk precisely defines both the commonalities and differences in the histories of Ukraine and Russia, and he also delves into the entanglements between Ukrainian and United States politics. Yekelchyk asks all the right questions and answers them succinctly and precisely.

There is no better book to start reading on the background of the current war. If you have time to read only one book on this topic, this is it.
– Mark Edele

2. The Red Mirror: Putin’s Leadership and Russia’s Insecure Identity by Gulnaz Sharafutdinova

Gulnaz Sharafutdinova’s The Red Mirror offers important insight into the nature of the Putin regime and how it has prepared the ground for this war domestically. The book is a rare attempt to take account of the emotional dimensions to Putinism, and how Putin has successfully crafted an image as the country’s defender against humiliation.

Sharafutdinova documents the evolution of the Russian state media machine over the past decade, showing how it has systematically promoted a vision of Russian identity grounded in Russian victimhood. State propagandists have cultivated and amplified emotions connected to Russia’s recent history, updating old Soviet tropes and enemy images to foster the notion that Russia is a nation under siege.

In much of the recent commentary on Putin’s Russia, we find Russian society reduced to a caricature. By contrast, this is a book that takes account of the diversity of Russian society and avoids resorting to stereotypes about the “Russian soul” or the supposed eternal Russian desire for an “iron hand”. Instead, Sharafutdinova shows how the current state of Russia is a result of political choices made by Vladimir Putin and his government.– Julie Fedor

3. The Gates of Europe: A History of Ukraine by Serhii Plokhy

Read full story at The Conversation:
https://theconversation.com/5-must-read-books-about-russia-and-ukraine-our-expert-picks-179832

Imagery: https://www.flickr.com/photos/thisisbossi