The 12 Angry Men is a renowned courtroom drama masterpiece, but what makes it so special? Well for starters, it is the best study for film makers and film lovers on how space is not a barrier when making a film.

The film in total has only three locations with the outside world only briefly being shown. What makes 12 Angry Men unique is the fact, that it is a courtroom drama without the courtroom.

It instead takes place in a small humid room, with a few props and mood at the bottom with most of the jurors having no interest in the whole thing.

When the film starts, all except one of the twelve jurors have their positions settled and there seems to be almost no doubt as to why there should be anything questionable in the whole argument. 

But slowly and slowly as the film progresses, the whole scenario is elaborately discussed, played out and dissected to its marrow, we see not one but several places for contention in the original argument which now seems shakily constructed.

In a further beautiful move of amazing storytelling, we see nothing of the trial itself except for the judge being practically bored, with his lack of interest showing that the verdict is a foregone conclusion. 

We hear neither defense nor prosecution, and learn of the witnesses only through the jurors, and the evidence is only second-hand, throughout the entire discussion. Most courtroom movies end with some sort of verdict, guilty or innocent. But 12 Angry Men never explicitly states anything beyond that the jury has a reasonable doubt about the culprit’s guilt.


Finally, this 1957 masterpiece directed by legendary filmmaker Sidney Lumet is entirely driven by the intensity and fervour of each of the twelve actors and their arguments which really pulls you into the narrative. This film is carried not by one but all the actors, and therefore it just cannot be chalked up to any one person alone. There are many brilliant courtroom dramas, Witness for the prosecution, A Few Good Men, The Verdict, but for me 12 Angry Men is the best courtroom drama of all time.