Australia’s Ashleigh Barty decided to drop a bombshell on Wednesday after announcing her retirement from professional tennis at the age of 25. Barty, who is holding the No.1 WTA rankings for a record 114 weeks, decided to bow out on a high and wants to focus on other endeavours in her career. 

On March 23, the Queensland-born Barty took to Instagram to upload a video where she and Casey Dellacqua, her former doubles partner, discussed on her retirement. Back in 2019, Barty had a major career breakthrough after she won the French Open at the Roland Garros. 

However, the youngster reckoned that the victory at the Wimbledon last year was a major achievement in her career. At the All-England Club in London, Barty defeated Karolina Pliskova 6-3 6-7 (7-4) 6-3 in a thrilling encounter. 

"To be able to win Wimbledon which was my dream, the one true dream that I wanted in tennis, that really changed my perspective. And I just had that gut feeling after Wimbledon and had spoken to my team quite a lot about it, and there was just a little part of me that wasn't quite satisfied, wasn't quite fulfilled.

I'm really really excited: Ashleigh Barty 
Back in January, Barty got past USA’s Danielle Collins to win the Australian Open at the Rod Laver Arena in Melbourne. After 44 years, an Australian tennis player had won the tournament. 

"And then came the challenge of the Australian Open. And I think that for me just feels like the perfect way, my perfect way, to celebrate what an amazing journey my tennis career has been,” Barty said.

"As a person this is what I want, I want to chase after some other dreams that I've always wanted to do. And I've always had that healthy balance, but I'm really really excited," she added.

Back in 2014, Barty took a break from tennis and played for the Brisbane Heat in the Women’s Big Bash League (WBBL). Thereafter, in 2016, she made her comeback to tennis and upped her game fairly quickly. She also won the bronze medal in the women’s doubles during the Tokyo Olympics last year