Arsene Wenger won his first double at Arsenal in 1997-98. A hat-trick of league titles by Manchester United followed, including a historic treble in 1998-99. Arsenal finished second in all three seasons and were FA Cup finalists in 2001. 
Arsenal had a strong start to the season with a 4-0 triumph away to Middlesbrough. Arsenal welcomed September in third place and moved top of the table for the first time with victory against Fulham. Some rather avoidable mistakes against Blackburn Rovers and Sunderland meant that Arsenal dropped points, fortunately so did United. Despite an embarrassing 4-0 drubbing at home by Charlton Athletic, Arsenal’s title ambitions were given a boost in November when mistakes from Fabian Barthez helped them defeat United. Arsenal were gunning for first place again by mid-December. Points were still being dropped in odd games but the gap to Manchester United never looked insurmountable. When Arsenal conceded an equaliser away at Southampton in February few thought it would be the last time, they would drop points in the league. The next 13 league games were all wins. A win against Charlton Athletic in the return fixture sent Arsenal to the top and did not relinquish it till the end. Arsenal had the opportunity to win the title at Old Trafford by beating United. A single strike in the second half secured the second Premier League title for the Gunners, ending United’s 3-year dominance. 
Arsenal entered the FA Cup with a 4-2 win away at Watford. Holders Liverpool were fourth-round opponents in a repeat of the 2001 final. Dennis Bergkamp scored the only goal. A comfortable 5-2 win against Gillingham followed although Gillingham did manage to equalise twice.   A replay was required to beat Newcastle in the sixth round. A Middlesbrough own-goal in the semi-final sent Arsenal to yet another cup final. The final was a London derby against Chelsea. Ray Parlour’s spectacular strike in the second half gave Arsenal a lead which was doubled by Freddie Ljungberg. 
Winning a second double was a significant achievement for Arsenal, one which prompted Arsene Wenger to suggest a ‘shift in power’ may be occurring in English football.