Zimbabwe and South Africa share a 225 km common border. There is only one official border crossing, at Beitbridge. An estimated 15,000 migrants and refugees from Zimbabwe and other countries cross daily either through the official border post or at illegal crossing points. Migrants’ access to healthcare, particularly in the two towns along this border – Beitbridge and Musina – has come into sharp focus after the health minister of Limpopo province made disparaging remarks to a Zimbabwean woman seeking help at a South African hospital. Doctors Without Borders has been providing healthcare to displaced populations at Beitbridge for 22 years. The Conversation Africa spoke to Doctors Without Borders’ regional migration advisor Vinayak Bhardwaj about their research into migrants’ healthcare needs in the area.
What’s known about people crossing into South Africa?
In 2019 we did a survey to produce reliable evidence on the way migrants move and what the links are to their health outcomes.
In the survey we interviewed just over 1,600 migrants in the border towns of Beitbridge in Zimbabwe and Musina in South Africa.
For most migrants, Beitbridge was a transit site en route to South Africa. The main reasons they gave for leaving their countries of origin were to search for jobs and for better living conditions.
These economic motivations were coherent with the main difficulties many respondents faced in Zimbabwe as their last place of residence. Many respondents had travelled from countries further north and had spent some time in Zimbabwe en route to South Africa.
These difficulties were mainly unemployment, financial challenges and food insecurity. Although they were aware of the alarming levels of political persecution and civil unrest in Zimbabwe, none of the participants cited political-related factors as the main reasons for leaving Zimbabwe.
Men and women said they came searching for jobs. But the search for better living conditions was a more predominant reason to leave the country for men than for women. 
Read more: https://theconversation.com/how-migrants-who-move-between-zimbabwe-and-south-africa-access-healthcare-in-border-towns-189822
