Russia indicated on Friday that it’s going to scale down its ambitious goal to capture key Ukrainian cities and rather focus on re-affirming its claim in the eastern Ukrainian territory of Donbass, where pro-Russia separatists have their enclaves.

Sergey Rudskoy, a top Russian general and the Defense Ministry spokesperson, announced the “first stage of the special military operation” has mostly been achieved as the Russian military had “considerably reduced” the “combat potential of the Armed Forces of Ukraine.” So, in the next step Russian forces will concentrate on “the complete liberation of the Donbass.” 

Defence analysts say that the apparent reframing of war goals by Russia is not as simple as it was announced. They say it could be a ploy by the Russian to reorganise its forces before a huge counter-attack with renewed vigour – which may include use of chemical, nuclear or biological weapons – through a misleading message. It could also be a strategy to project a face-saving victory by President Vladimir Putin because the Russian military has faced an unexpected resistance by Ukrainians. It has miserably failed to achieve its aim to capture the country and topple its government. 

Contrary to the Defence Ministry claim, instead of reducing Ukrainian combat potential, Russia has lost around 15,000 soldiers, including 7 generals in the battle front, as claimed by NATO officials. Even Russia’s official death toll is 1,351 and 3,825 injured. Moreover, the brutal invasion has killed over 1000 Ukrainian civilians, including children in hospitals, and driven out over 44 million out of the country. But despite its lethal attacks it has failed to capture the capital Kyiv.

Even more damaging is the fact that Kherson, the only city captured by Russia, is facing a strong counter-attack by Ukrainians and Russia is poised to lose its control there. 

The stalemate and counter-offensive seem to have forced the Kremlin to sell their “achievement of complete liberation” of the Donbas region as a victory of the so-called “special military operation.” 

READ MORE:

https://www.nytimes.com/2022/03/25/world/europe/russia-ukraine-war-goals.html

https://www.bbc.com/news/world-europe-60882156

https://www.reuters.com/world/us/ukraine-urges-halt-russias-assault-biden-heads-poland-2022-03-25/