Consumers and businesses around the world are facing steeper prices for everything from Mexico’s beloved tortillas to the aluminum cans used by beer companies.
Inflation jumped after countries emerged from Covid lockdowns and it has soared since Russia invaded Ukraine, with the IMF expecting consumer prices to rise by 8.3 percent globally this year.
Here is a look at how higher prices are affecting the world:
Fuel
The invasion of Ukraine by Russia, the world’s third largest oil producer, sent crude oil prices through the roof. 
The main international contract, Brent North Sea, almost hit $140 per barrel, but has now dropped back below $100.
Prices at the pump have followed suit, surging to over two euros per litre in eurozone countries and above five dollars per gallon in the United States, before falling back in recent weeks.
Natural gas has also become more expensive, especially in Europe, where electricity prices hit record levels in Germany and France.
Energy prices were up 38.3 percent in the eurozone in August from the same month last year.
Higher energy prices ripple throughout the economy as they affect the production and transportation costs of companies.
Pasta, beans and tortillas
The war sent food prices soaring as the war disrupted grain exports from Ukraine, a major supplier of wheat and sunflower oil to countries around the world.
In May, Allianz estimated that pasta prices had risen 19 percent in the eurozone over the previous 18 months.
In Canada, another large exporter of wheat, a 500-gram package had risen by 60 cents in July from the same month last year, to CAN$3.16, according to official data.
In Thailand, the price for instant noodles, which is controlled by the state, rose for the first time in 14 years in August — a 17 percent increase to seven bahts (20 US cents).
The price of the corn flour used to make tortillas in Mexico — a staple used for tacos and other dishes — is up by around 13 percent from last year and contributing to two-decade high inflation.
Pinto beans, a Brazilian staple, cost nearly 23 percent more in August than at the same time last year.