Imagine Sri Lanka’s Mahinda Rajapaksa, whose family dominated the politics in the island nation for the past two decades, had to resign as Prime Minister and take shelter in a military base.

This is the power of the people. The protestors are demanding that the Rajapaksa family relinquish power in view of months of blackouts and shortages in Sri Lanka, which is suffering its worst economic crisis since independence in 1948.

While Mahinda has resigned, his younger brother Gotabaya Rajapaksa remains in office as president, with extensive executive powers and command over the security forces.

Months of blackouts and shortages in the island nation have shown that a powerful leader cannot necessarily be a good administrator.

Rajapaksa’s support base mainly comprised a conservative and Buddhist majority population who favoured his political ambitions until the economic crisis hit Sri Lanka.

His government’s decisions to reduce taxes and ban all chemical fertilizers used in agriculture along with the Covid-19 pandemic have shaken the country’s economy. The government’s mismanagement of the crisis has aggravated the situation, prompting the people to take to streets.

Mahinda’s political career spans decades. He served as President of Sri Lanka from 2005 to 2015, as Leader of the Opposition from 2002 to 2004 and 2018 to 2019, and as Finance Minister from 2005 to 2015 and 2019 to 2021.

Rajapaksa was first elected as the President from the Sri Lanka Freedom Party (SLFP) in 2005. In his first term, which ended in 2010, he was known for the decimation of the Liberation Tigers of Tamil Eelam (LTTE) who were defeated in May 2009 and their fearsome leader Velupillai Prabhakaran was killed.

He won the 2010 presidential election and his second term ended in 2015. Rajapaksa lost the 2015 presidential election to his former ally Maithripala Sirisena after he was accused of corruption in both the previous elections.

Both Mahinda and his brother Gotabaya, who is dubbed as ‘war hero’ have been accused of human rights violations by the families of ethnic Tamils killed or disappeared during the civil war. Muslims too fear his popularity among Sinhalese Buddhists will further deepen the divide between the two communities.