Summer is the hottest season of the year however people, especially children, enjoy it a lot because of the long vacation they get the chance to enjoy swimming, eating ice creams, and their favorite fruits such as mangoes, watermelons, etc.

By getting outside, walking or taking a bike ride you can enjoy the great outdoors while walking through your neighborhood or running around the block. Summer is a perfect time to head outside. Cycling is healthy fun and exercise for all ages. Cycling is easy to fit into your daily routine and the best way to reduce risk of health problems.

The influence of computers and technologies harms the new and young generations video games are one of the influences on the young minds outdoor and indoor games play an important role in maintaining a healthy mind-body so games to develop body and mind and escape away diseases exercise can improve brain function memory and analytical skills regular exercise can help you relax and sleep better.

Photography inspires you to get outside and connect with nature. It provides a shift in perspective. Sharing your memories with others is a great choice to share your memories with friends, teachers , parents and with anyone else.

Writing is very interesting learning new words and finding new ways to articulate your thoughts and feelings are altogether good for the brainwriting down your feelings acts as relaxation and can be very cleansing painting allows people to express their feelings and emotions without words individuals that paint use art to overcome shyness and convey their personality using artwork to tell a story of someone shy.

Even learning a new language makes you smarter. Students who study foreign languages tend to score better on standardized tests than their monolingual peers.

Swimming is a great recreational activity for people of all ages; it keeps your heart rate up.

As communication technology has diversified, posted letters have become less important. Letter writing is a great means of communication. 

Touring is an impressive way to get deeper insights and powerful motivation.

Thus, these activities not only provide an escape from the scorching heat but also a way to utilize the best of the season.