A court in Kano, northern Nigeria, recently convicted an atheist for making social media posts it found to be blasphemous against Islam. After a lengthy trial, Mubarak Bala pleaded guilty and was sentenced to 24 years in prison. The Conversation Africa’s Wale Fatade asked Islamic law expert AbdulRazzaq Alaro to explain the judgement.

Is blasphemy a criminal offence in Nigeria?
Blasphemy is an offence under sharia (Islamic law). Sharia law operates in most northern states, including Kano.

Blasphemy is also an offence under Nigeria’s criminal law in states that put it on their statute books. This is true for states in both the north and the south.

The defendant in the recent case in Kano was convicted of “inciting disturbance and insulting” and “exciting contempt of religious creed” under sections 114 and 210 of the penal code law of Kano State. He was alleged to have posted something considered to be insulting to God, Prophet Muhammad and Islam in general.

At first glance this charge does not appear to be one of blasphemy, but rather of an offence against religion. However, a close reading of Kano’s penal code shows that the charge equals that of blasphemy, an offence under both the state’s penal code and its system of sharia law. The two are implemented side by side.

It’s important to note that the outcome would have been the same in a Lagos High Court because the criminal law of Lagos State also criminalises blasphemous utterances. They are criminalised under section 124, which forbids insults to religion.

Have there been similar convictions before?
In the north yes, but not in the south.

There have been a number of trials of similar offences under the penal code and sharia penal code in the northern parts of the country.

In 2020 Omar Farouq was sentenced to 10 years’ imprisonment on a charge popularly described as blasphemy. A singer, Yahaya Sherif Aminu, was sentenced to death by hanging in 2020 for the same offence by a sharia court in Kano.

Read more - https://theconversation.com/blasphemy-in-nigerias-legal-systems-an-explainer-182479