By Kalim Ahmed

[Warning: Visuals may be distressing for some. Reader discretion is advised.]

A video clip where a group of men can be seen brutally attacking a man with iron rods and sticks is widely circulating on social media. The video has been shared with a rhetorical question asking whether the internet was shut down in Rajasthan’s Jodhpur so that Muslims can “kill” Hindus in broad daylight.

The video is widely circulating on Twitter with this claim.

Alt News has received several requests on our WhatsApp helpline number (+91 76000 11160) to verify the authenticity of this video.

One of the requests on WhatsApp had a caption that suggested that the video is from Bangladesh, where a Hindu leader was allegedly beaten up for refusing to take part in an iftar party. The video is also viral on Twitter with this claim.

Users UmaShankar2054, KaranGu44058621, mr_subodhkumar, yogeshDharmSena, and TheSachai shared the video on Twitter with this claim.

Fact-check
Alt News has already debunked the claim that a minority Hindu leader in Bangladesh was thrashed for refusing to be part of an iftar party. The full report can be read here.

As for the presently viral video, we broke it down into keyframes and performed a Google reverse image search on one of the stills. This led us to a news report by Amar Ujala published on May 1. As per the report, the incident took place in Yamunanagar village in Haryana, and the victim is Kamaljeet, a truck driver from Sultanpur. The report had little information on the attackers, however, it states that the attack was carried out due to personal enmity and two of the attackers are from the same village as Kamaljeet.

Based on Amar Ujala’s report, we performed a keyword search and came across a news report by The Times of India. As per TOI, the full name of the victim is Kamaljeet Singh and as per his medical report, he received grievous injuries on his face, arms, and legs.

Read the full story here:- https://www.altnews.in/video-from-haryana-falsely-viral-as-hindu-youth-attacked-by-muslims-in-rajasthan/?utm_source=website&utm_medium=social-media&utm_campaign=newpost