Nothing excites a football fan more than a goal. Invariably star strikers are adored by their supporters across the globe. The FIFA World Cup is the biggest test for a footballer and greatness is attained based on the heroics in the showpiece. Onmanorama picks five experienced strikers who are set to light up Qatar 2022.
Robert Lewandowski
The Polish striker is a goal machine. The former Bayern Munich star has been on a roll since moving to Barcelona this season. He is Poland's all-time top-scorer with 76 strikes from 134 matches. At 34 this could well be Lewandowski's final World Cup and he would be keen to put on a show. Poland are placed in Group C alongside Argentina, Saudi Arabia and Mexico. Poland's progress will depend a lot on how their captain Lewandowski fares.
Harry Kane
The England captain is the fox in the box. Tottenham talisman Kane has the ability to be at the right place at the right time as his tally of 51 goals from 75 matches for England confirms. The 29-year-old relishes the big occasion as he won the Golden Boot in the last edition of the World Cup in Russia. His tally of six goals took England to their maiden World Cup semifinals since Italia 1990. England came close to ending their trophy drought at Euro 2020 before losing to Italy on penalties in the final at Wembley. England feature in a relatively easy Group B with Iran, USA and Wales being the other teams. Kane and the Three Lions will be hoping to go all the way this time around.
Karim Benzema
Benzema forced his way back into the French national squad last year following a stunning season for Real Madrid. However, a shock loss to Switzerland in the pre-quarterfinals of Euro 2020 dashed his hopes of a grand comeback. At 34, Benzema continues to be a real threat and with the likes of Kylian Mbappe and Antoine Griezmann for company, the French could open up any defence. Coach Didier Deschamps will be keen to make the most of Benzema's experience and goal-scoring prowess. 
Read more
https://www.onmanorama.com/sports/football/2022/10/08/five-seasoned-strikers-who-could-light-up-qatar-2022.amp.html