There have been many big budget flicks out there which have bombed at the box office, either due to negative critical reception or bad audience reviews such as ‘X Men: Dark Phoenix’ or ‘Green Lantern’. But then you have Michael Bay’s abomination of a movie series, The Transformers franchise. Universally abhorred, this movie franchise directed by Michael Bay, somehow has become a billion dollar franchise, against all negative reviews.

Based on the Japanese toy line and anime series, Transformers is all about slick action scenes consisting of awesome giant robots punching each other in the face, transforming into vehicles possessing awesome weapons or featuring some badass new transformations. Instead, the franchise has become a giant multimillion dollar ad for various brands, consisting of toilet humour full of cringe, ridiculous racial stereotypes, and action scenes full of bad camerawork and an orgy of explosions.

Repetitive to its core and horribly made, The Transformers franchise started out as a decent crowd pleasing entertainer with the first Transformers, which actually packed some decent substance, but by the time of its second outing, turned into an illogical and incoherent mess full of messed up action, little characterization of robots, more focus on the boring and useless human characters, way too much glorification of the American military and signature of all Michael Bay tropes, a love of explosions.

All the characters just seem to be there with little purpose, save for Optimus, Bumblebee and whoever the boring human leads are. Hell, all those cool villains like The Fallen and Soundwave, and all those great robot designs are only there to give Optimus something to punch. And yet they earn billions. Why is that?

Maybe, it is because it is the lowest common denominator of all entertainment where you just don’t need to think, maybe you can simply unwind everything, including your brain. Maybe it is the ultimate teenage fantasy sporting top notch VFX, full of hot girls, big guns, giant robots, and of course, zero physics and massive explosions. For all its faults, Michael Bay knows what his audiences wanted and maybe that is why his Transformers franchise has made so much money.