Popularly, referred to as the "father of modern Indian art", Raja Ravi Varma is majorly recognized for his realistic portrayal of Indian gods and goddesses and ancient Puranic texts.

This 6th of April, one of his masterpieces, "Draupadi Vastraharan", will be going under the hammer for the first time. 

Let's take a look at Varma’s life and his illustrious career: 

He was born on April 1848 in Kilimanoor, Kerala, to a family of chieftains known as the Koil Thampurans which was very close to the royals of Travancore. 

At a young age, he would bring out animals and everyday scenes on the walls in indigenous colours made from natural substances such as leaves, flowers and soil. His uncle, Raja Raja Varma, noted this and encouraged his talent.
Under the royal patronage of the then king of Travancore, he learnt watercolour art from the royal artist Ramaswamy Naidu, and later trained in oil painting from Dutch painter Theodore Jensen.

>>Artist of the royals:

Varma became a much sought-after artist for the nobles and was entrusted with several portraits in the late 19th century. 

Fulfilling a portrait of Maharaja Sayajirao of Baroda, he was commissioned 14 Puranic paintings for the Durbar Hall of the new Lakshmi Vilas Palace at Baroda. Portraying culture, Varma borrowed from episodes of Mahabharata and Ramayana for the same. He also received patronage from other rulers like the Maharaja of Mysore and Udaipur.

In 1904, Viceroy Lord Curzon, on behalf of the British Emperor, conferred upon him, the Kaisar-i-Hind that mentioned the title 'Raja' for the first time against his name.

Acknowledged to have made more than 7,000 paintings before his death at the age of 58 in 1906, Varma incorporated European realism with Indian sensibilities.

>>Royal art for the masses:

Ravi Varma yearned to take his art to the masses and this pursuit led him to open a Lithographic Press in Bombay in 1894. The first portrait printed at Varma’s press was reportedly The Birth of Shakuntala followed by numerous mythological figures.

Today, even more than 100 years after his death, there is no doubt about the profound heritage left behind by the great artist.