Anthony Albanese has stopped short of calling for Australians to work from home if they can, as the chief medical officer, Paul Kelly, advised yesterday in the face of the rising Covid wave, saying the nation needed a “balance” to also consider the interests of business.

Despite numerous questions across a radio interview and a press conference about the latest recommendation from the Australian Health Protection Principal Committee that employers should allow working from home if feasible, the prime minister did not directly make that request himself.

“I don’t think there’s a prescriptive position that can be put forward,” Albanese said.

On Tuesday, Prof Kelly said the AHPPC – comprised of all state and territory chief health officers – had reiterated its advice which “called on employers to allow work from home if feasible”.

“Employers should review their occupational health and safety risks and mitigations, and their business continuity plans. They should consider the feasibility of some employees working from home, wearing masks in the workplace and support employees to take leave when sick,” Kelly said.

Guardian Australia understands some large employers, including Telstra, have recently updated their guidance to encourage staff to work from home.

Appearing on Melbourne’s 3AW radio on Wednesday morning, Albanese encouraged people to stay home if they were sick, as well as urging Australians to access vaccine booster shots and Covid antiviral drugs if they were eligible.

But despite questioning from host Neil Mitchell about the need for a “clear message” on how Australians should take Covid precautions, Albanese said every workplace was different.

“It depends what your work is of course. For many workplaces, they’ve adjusted to be able to work from home, and that’s becoming more and more something that I think is a permanent feature for some businesses ... but for many people, of course, it is simply impossible to work from home due to the nature of their work,” the PM said.

While many office workers have worked from home at stages through the pandemic, many of those in frontline sectors, such as healthcare, hospitality and services industries, cannot undertake work remotely.

Read more
https://www.theguardian.com/australia-news/2022/jul/20/anthony-albanese-stops-short-of-calling-for-australians-to-work-from-home-amid-covid-surge