At a press conference today, the grand old party declared that the three Jharkhand Congress MLAs who were arrested in Bengal yesterday with a large amount of cash have been suspended from the party with immediate effect. Earlier, the party attempted to associate it with the BJP by alleging that the three leaders received financial support in order to remove the state government.
However, the BJP said that the funds are evidence of corruption in the Jharkhand Mukti Morcha-Congress coalition administration.

Everybody is covered by our database. Any public official, party office holder, or employee who is discovered to be connected to or participating in this will be subject to action

Mr. Pande announced that Sonia Gandhi, the president of the Congress, had suspended the three MLAswith immediate effect during a press conference at the party's headquarters inDelhi.

The MLAs from Jamtara, Kolebira, and Khijri — Irfan Ansari,Rajesh Kachhap, and Naman Bixal Kongari — are being questioned by the Howrah Rural police regarding the source of the money.

Police stopped an SUV carrying Congress MLAs on national highway-16 near Ranihati in Howrah on Saturday after receiving a tip, and they allegedly discovered a large quantity of cash inside.

The relatives of one of the MLAs Irfan Ansari have rebutted allegations that BJP is trying to destabilise the coalition government in Jharkhand. However, the relatives of one of the MLAs Irfan Ansari have rebutted allegations that BJP is trying to destabilise the coalition government in Jharkhand. "The only reason the MLAs were given money is to make the government fall," he said. The same has been done against CM Hemant Soren's government," Bandhu Tirkey, Working President of Jharkhand Congress had alleged earlier. 

"The government cannot be brought down with just a meagre sum of ₹ 40-50 lakh," they reportedly said. "The game plan of 'Hum Do' in Delhi is to do in Jharkhand what they did in Maharashtra by installing E-D duo," he wrote.  Dilip Ghosh, a senior BJP leader from Bengal, linked the Howrah action with "investigation against corruption" in Jharkhand The party's communications in-charge Jairam Ramesh had claimed that the incident "exposed" the BJP's 'Operation Lotus' in Jharkhand.