Newcastle United are reportedly interested in hiring Jose Mourinho as their new manager,
according to Marca. The Portuguese manager is likely to continue in command of AS Roma
until 2024. The Magpies, on the other hand, are attempting to entice him back to the Premier
League.

After a fantastic second half of the season, Newcastle United have clinched their spot in the
Premier League. After losing their first 14 games this season, the Magpies were written off. After
such a dismal start, no team has ever escaped relegation.

Newcastle have seen their share of turmoil since their new Saudi Arabia-backed group seized
control of the club. The spotlight was on the management appointment following Steve Bruce's
departure.

After a brief period in which Unai Emery appeared to be the favorite, Eddie Howe took over and
has since guided the team out of its doldrums and into a comfortable mid-table position. Howe
secured a contract extension through 2024, so his job is likely safe for the time being.

Newcastle United, according to Marca, may be looking for a new manager to take over at the
start of next season. According to the Spanish source, Jose Mourinho is the leading contender.

Before Howe, the Portuguese were said to have been contacted. The strategist seems to have
turned down Newcastle's approaches at the time, remaining focused on his work at Roma.

It appears like Newcastle United is still considering hiring the former Chelsea, Real Madrid,
Manchester United, and Tottenham Hotspur manager. They're apparently seeking a leader with
a track record of winning championships and taking on the best.

The possibility of pursuing Mourinho may come as a surprise to Howe, who has performed
admirably since taking over from Bruce. He has not only helped the club avoid relegation, but he
has also demonstrated that he can make this team competitive.

It remains to be seen whether Mourinho's pursuit is genuine enough to achieve a spectacular
return to the Premier League for the Portuguese maestro.