By Surinder Singh Oberoi

New Delhi: Bhutan's youth or new educated generation, savvy with the internet, social media, privatization of traditional media and democracy taking over from the King's rule of the Himalayan Kingdom, is shifting the mood of the educated. Bhutan, having a population of around 800,000 people mainly following Buddhism and known for its happiness index, is becoming a worrisome subject for India as it opens politically, economically, and diplomatically. Several young Bhutan students and entrepreneurs are leaving the shores of Bhutan, and when they return to Bhutan, they want to build a relationship with other countries in addition to relationship with India. Most Bhutan students would go for higher studies to India only, but now it is changing.

Bhutan's increased diplomatic footprint with other countries and China further complicates the situation. On July 21, 2022, new pictures from the satellite show that China has completed the construction of a village in a hilly valley of Bhutan, 9 km from Doklam, a sensitive and strategically important area for India. In January 2022, Satellite imagery showed Beijing constructing at least six settlements in the 110 square Kilometre territory disputed by China and Bhutan. Beijing plans to establish its boundary claims all along the 3500 km Line of Actual Control (LAC) with India and the 480 km border with Bhutan. The Chinese hostility is expected to increase further. Bhutan, meanwhile, continues to maintain diplomatic silence. In an interview with an Indian newspaper by Bhutan's Foreign Minister, Tandi Dorj, since he signed the 3-step road map MoU with China in October 2021 to resolve the boundary issue. Tandi said India's interests in the Doklam tri-junction will not be "harmed or compromised".

India is monitoring the Chinese activities along its northern borders and on the border with Bhutan. India has sensitized Bhutan on upcoming Chinese villages along the Amu Chu to re-align border claims in the disputed tri-junction area near the Doklam plateau. The images and analysis supplied by US data show that all six settlements appear to be in the disputed territory of China and Bhutan.

Read more
https://www.newsdrum.in/analysis/india-china-border-is-bhutan-drifting-away-from-india-67804.html