The Nigeria Football Federation has announced the dismissal of the whole Super Eagles coaching staff, as well as Augustine Eguavoen's resignation, which was announced earlier on Thursday.

The NFF made the decision after Nigeria failed to qualify for the 2022 Fifa World Cup after a 1-1 draw with Ghana on Tuesday at the M.K.O Abiola Stadium in Abuja, announcing the news in a statement on their official Twitter handle.

Despite Nigeria's failure to qualify for the 2021 Africa Cup of Nations, the country's football governing body decided to keep Eguavoen's team, which included Joseph Yobo, Aloysius Agu, Salisu Yusuf, and Paul Aigbogun, while also bringing in former U17 coach Emmanuel Amuneke.

The coaches were given the door a few hours after Eguavoen tendered his resignation, due to the fact that the 2013 African champions will not be playing in Qatar 2022.

“The NFF has in the meantime withdrawn the two-and-half year contract offered [to] the coaches and terminated the appointment of the entire technical crew of the team with immediate effect,” the statement made available to GOAL by the NFF read.

“A new crew will be announced after a proper review to lead the new charge of reinvigorating the Super Eagles to face future challenges appropriately.”

“We thank the coaches and team officials for their service to the nation and wish them success in their future endeavours,” he said.

Former Burkina Faso coach Aliou Cisse guided his country to the 2018 Fifa World Cup in Russia and the 2019 Africa Cup of Nations, where Nigeria finished third after defeating Tunisia in the third-place match.

Before his dismissal, the 68-year-old had come under fire from Nigerians as the Super Eagles battled but eventually advanced to the second round of the 2022 World Cup qualifiers from Group C. Nigeria missed the 2006 World Cup after losing their ticket to debutants Angola due to the head-to-head rule. The country's attention will now turn to future challenges, namely the Africa Cup of Nations in 2023.