By Archit Mehta

[Disclaimer: Violent content. The video has not been added or linked in this report.]

On February 6, a 17-year-old boy was killed in a clash between members of two communities in Jharkhand’s Hazaribag district. Hazaribag superintendent of police (SP) Manoj Ratan Chothe told Hindustan Times, “We have arrested the four accused, including one Aslam alias Pappu.” He added, “There is no communal angle in the incident and it’s not a case of mob lynching. As per the initial investigation, the incident was related to a fight this group had with the boy in their college.” HT reported that internet services have been shut in four districts of Jharkhand in order to de-escalate tensions between the two communities.

Subsequently, an extremely violent video is being shared with the claim that it shows the minor’s murder. A user tweeted this video and wrote, “Brutal killing of #RupeshPandey is very disturbing. Is this Bharat or Islamic state.”

This video is 30 seconds long. In the first 20 seconds, a Muslim mob assaults a man on a bike and shortly after drags him inside a warehouse. People of varied age groups can be spotted in the video. This segment of the video has the logo of Sudarshan News.

The last 10 seconds of the video shows a man being beheaded. Unlike the opening 20-seconds, this doesn’t have the Sudarshan News logo.

Alt News has received several requests to fact-check this claim on our WhatsApp helpline number (+91 76000 11160).

Videos unrelated to the incident
The viral video has been manufactured by merging two videos. They are not related to the Jharkhand murder.

Video 1: Muslim mob beating and dragging a man inside a warehouse

The first 20 seconds of the viral video are from May 2021. Back then, it was shared with the false claim that the video is from West Bengal. Alt News debunked the video and found that it is from Uttar Pradesh. Bhopa police station SHO Dheeraj Singh confirmed that the video is from his jurisdiction.

Read the full story here:- https://www.altnews.in/videos-from-up-and-paraguay-linked-to-minors-death-in-jharkhands-hazaribag/?utm_source=website&utm_medium=social-media&utm_campaign=newpost