The relationship between religion and the law is often complicated. It is sometimes even conflicted. At the heart of the matter lies the tension between freedom of belief and association, and protection from abuse.

For example, the state has a responsibility to intervene when the beliefs or practices of religious individuals or communities are harmful or unlawful.

The “state”, in this instance, refers to all three branches of government: the executive, legislature and judiciary. The “church” refers to religious groupings in general (not only Christianity). A good, functional, relationship between the state and religious groupings is important for democracy.

In South Africa, freedom of religion is protected by the constitution. But there are times when the judiciary has to adjudicate on matters involving the church and its members, and in conflicts between religious communities and the state.

A good example is the 2013 court case of Ecclesia de Lange against the Methodist Church. Reverend De Lange was dismissed by the church after she married her same-sex partner

The South African constitution protects the rights and freedoms of lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, intersex and queer (LGBTIQ+) people, and also the right to associate with religious communities. Which right must be protected: those of the religious community, or those of the individual? The court found in favour of the church on procedural grounds.

There are other cases where courts had to protect citizens from harm by religious leaders. For example, a pastor was found guilty of assault after spraying congregants with an insecticide, claiming it cured cancer and HIV.

Most religious communities function as a voluntary association under common law. Members submit to the rules when they join. Yet, if they dispute how the church rules are applied, they often turn to the secular courts to protect their constitutional rights.

This seems reasonable. So why would this cause tension, and even conflict, between religious communities and the state?

Read more: https://theconversation.com/religion-and-state-need-to-be-in-balance-to-protect-democracy-in-south-africa-186405