People of Varanasi have another reason to smile as the Union Rail Ministry, has chalked out a proposal for the Delhi Varanasi High Speed Rail Corridor (DVHSR) for the running of the Bullet train at the estimated cost of Rs 1.21 lakhs crores. The 816 kilometer long journey at the speed of 330 km per hour would last for 3 hours and 40 minutes.

The Union Rail Minister, has confirmed the proposal for connecting Delhi and Varanasi through Bullet train Corridor, replying to a question in the Parliament.

Happiness has prevailed among the locals as Varanasi would shine more on the tourist map under the vision of the Modi government for development in different spheres. They are of the view that the tourism would boost much more in the city, attracting outsider travelers to come here.

According to railway officials, the corridor would have 13 stations, one underground in Delhi and 12 elevated in Uttar Pradesh. The 816 kilometer long journey from Hazrat Nizamuddin station in Delhi would start and via Noida sector 146 metro stations, Mathura, Agra, Etawah, Kannauj, Lucknow, Rae Bareli, Pratapgarh, Prayagraj, Bhadohi and terminate at Banaras junction in Varanasi.For the underground station in Delhi, a 15 km long tunnel is proposed in the plan.

At present, the air passengers spare five hours from their houses and hotels in Delhi and reaching to their destinations after landing at the Varanasi airport. After reporting and security check up for nearly an hour at the airport in Delhi, they reach to Varnasi after a journey of direct flight for 100 minutes and again spare one hour from airport to their destination  in the city after a local journey between 50 to 70 minutes.

The total plane journey from Delhi to Varanasi till home and hotels require 4 to five hours. Since, Banaras junction is situated in the heart of the city, so coming passengers can reach to their destinations in the city just for 15 to 30 minutes. So, the timing, spared for  travelling by air and bullet train to Varanasi would be  almost approximate the same. The project would be carried out in three phases.