Assembly election updates 

‌While the Election Commission Extends Ban on Physical Rallies till January 22, electoral heat is not less in India.

‌In Uttar Pradesh, an FIR has been lodged against Chhattisgarh Chief Minister Bhupesh Baghel and others for violating Covid protocols in a door-to-door campaign for a Congress candidate in Noida.

‌He was charged under 269 (acts spreading disease), 270 (spread of disease), 188 (disobedience of public order) and relevant sections of the Epidemic Act, in the police station at Noida’s Sector 113.

‌Janata Dal in UP, after the failed attempt to unite with BJP, decides to stand alone.

‌Whereas, the Nishad Party president, Sanjay Nishad had said that they will contest in 15 assembly constituencies in UP as part of an alliance with the BJP.
‌
‌Moreover, the President of the Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) party, Naresh Tikait extends support to the Samajwadi Party and the Rashtriya Lok Dal alliance (SP-RLD).

 In the recent view of ends support of farmers union is crucial.

‌Ahead of elections in Uttarakhand, BJP suspended state cabinet minister Harak Singh Rawat from the party for six years. 

The party media coordinator for Uttarakhand, Manveer Singh Chauhan, said Rawat had been suspended for ‘indiscipline’.

‌The CM Pushkar Singh Dhami also said that Rawat was trying to buy tickets for his family members.

‌He chose to join the Congress party instead and work without any conditions for victory in the assembly elections.

‌Meanwhile, in Goa, AAP won’t align with TMC.

 Aravind Kejriwal said don’t believe in ‘jod-tod ki rajneeti’.

‌The case is very different in Punjab as they were to postpone the polls. 

As per the report of PTI, The Election Commission is meeting to discuss postponing the February 14 Assembly polls in Punjab as demanded by various political parties because of the Guru Ravidas Jayanti. 

‌The parties unitedly said the devotees who visit Varanasi in Uttar Pradesh to celebrate the Jayanti which is on February 16 would not be able to cast their votes.

‌ Punjab Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi, last week, composed to the EC to postpone the polls by six days, while similar pressures were made by other parties like the BJP and BSP.