Sexual coercion is when someone manipulates you into unwanted sexual activity through non-physical means. Those means could range from anything – from threats to harm to continuous persistent despite being told a no already.

There's no textbook blueprint of sexual coercion. It can be anything that's used against you so that you'd have sex against your free will. They tell you that they'll reveal your secrets or out you publically if you didn't have sex with them, like telling people about your trauma, past relationships, familial problems or closeted sexuality. They threaten to leave you if you didn't have sex with them. Remember, ending a relationship because your needs aren't met is not the same as threatening to end it so the other person would comply. One of them is a result of clear communication and the other is an act of entitlement.

They threaten to hurt you and endanger your physical safety so that you'd say yes to having sex; or they threaten to hurt your family or friends. For example, "do it if you don't want something to happen to the kids." They threaten to spread rumors about you, or reveal your sexual relationship in public – this happen especially in relationships or places where sex is considered a taboo. Like a country where women are character assassinated, or even killed, for having a sexuality or in a high school situation where girls are judged and bullied for that.

One of the most common ways of coercion is persistence. They just wouldn't take no for an answer. They'll keep asking you for sex until you say yes. "What about now?", "Are you in the mood now?", "How about tonight?" They make you uncomfortable until you give in.

Another way that is super common and often overlooked is weaponizing the relationship they share with you. Making you feel like you owe them sex because they are your intimate partner. It is a common occurrence in heterosexual relationships where men don't leave space for their partner to say no and plant an idea in their head that it's their moral duty to please their male partner.