When Angela Merkel retired as Germany’s Chancellor last year, after having served three terms (2005 to 2021), she had made Germany the strongest economy of the European Union and one of the top economies in the world. She managed the global financial crisis of 2007-2008 efficiently and despite the European migrant crisis of 2010 and last two year’s Covid-19 pandemic, Germany’s economy continued with its leading position.

But now, Russia’s war in Ukraine seems like the biggest economic crisis looming over the country, as business leaders feel worried that Germany’s recession-proof economy will finally falter. The early signs of an economic recession – inflation, disrupted supply chains and the high price of energy – have already hit the country in a big way.

The Zew Indicator of Economic Sentiment measures overall opinions of experts — such as financial professionals and other business leaders – on the direction of the German economy over the next six months. The current economic conditions witnessed the index drop to a level of minus 21.4 points, beyond the expectation of minus 20.0. The experts now expect a stagflation – a period of inflation combined with a decline of GDP – in the country as it will affect practically all sectors of the German economy, especially the energy intensive sectors and the financial sector.

Germany’s energy crisis began last year when Russia started decreasing natural gas supply to the country. The country stopped three nuclear power plants and after the Ukraine war broke out Nord Stream 2 a key gas pipeline from Russia was halted.

Enactment of sanctions gave the economy a bigger blow that forced hundreds of German companies, such as the auto giant Volkswagen, conducting business there. Cutting down financial ties are also going to affect debt payments by Russian joint venture companies to the German parent company. Furthermore, as German industry sources of raw materials, such as metals like nickel, in Russia and Ukraine, many manufacturing unit ranging from automobiles to heavy engineering are going to bear the brunt of the war.    

READ MORE: 

https://www.marketwatch.com/story/german-economic-expectations-post-record-drop-due-to-war-in-ukraine-271647339237

https://www.nytimes.com/2022/03/15/business/german-recession-russia-ukraine.html

https://www.cityam.com/german-economy-hurtling-towards-recession-on-russia-ukraine-war/