Around noon on 21 June 2022, Kalim Siddiqui was reading the  newspaper in his store selling household paints and other hardware in the Bapunagar locality of Ahmedabad when he received a call from an unknown number. 
The caller did not give his name. He said Siddiqui had been summoned to the office of the crime branch of Ahmedabad police in Raikhad, near the Sabarmati riverfront. Taken aback briefly, the 39-year-old assumed it was a routine call of some sort and visited the office the following day. 
At the police station, he found he was not alone—other Muslims activists had been summoned too, about 40 of them over a period of three days, he later found out.  
Siddiqui said he was asked questions about his family, his place of residence, children, their school, their daily routine, other personal details, including his occupation, and what he did after work hours. Policemen noted down Siddiqui’s social media handles and asked what subjects he posted about. 
After the activists had waited “hours” at the police station, assistant commissioner of police (ACP) D P Chudasama reportedly asked them to stop demonstrating on the streets with placards, banners and posters. According to Siddiqui, the officer asked them to “focus” on their families instead. 
Most recently, on 25 September, seven activists preparing for a padyatra (march) from Godhra to Ahmedabad to show support for 2002 riots survivor Bilkis Bano were detained at 10.15 pm in Godhra. 
Over 100 policemen entered the room where the activists were having dinner and detained Magsasay Award winner Sandeep Pandey, Noorjehan, Nitesh Gangaramani, Tanushree Gangopadhyay, Hanif Kalandar, Kausar Ali and T Gopal Krishna, who were taken to the B-Division police station in Godhra. Later in the night, Kalandar, who is a local corporator, and the two women activists were released, while the others were taken to Kakanpur police station, around 25 km from Godhra.
Read more - https://article-14.com/post/the-gujarat-model-crackdown-on-dissent-gathers-pace-activists-threatened-arrested-externed--6333ad4d0677d