The summer of 2021 was a wild one. The transfer window saw so many unimaginable club-player pairings turn to reality, but few mention the deals that didn't take place last summer. Manchester City's pursuit of Tottenham Hotspur captain Harry Kane was no secret, but it just didn't happen due to one reason or the other.


The season started horribly for Kane, mainly being absent due to injury followed by a poor run of form under then spurs head coach Nuno Espírito Santo. Since Antonio Conte's arrival at the Londoners club though, both Spurs and Kane have seen a turn in fortunes. And It's no surprise that the team's flourished when the Englishman has been on his best game.


This past month, in particular has been a brilliant one for Kane. He's come to form one of Europe's deadliest attacking duos with Heung Min Son at spurs. West Ham United, Manchester United, Brighton, Everton and Man City have been some of his targets. With his inevitable return to form however, the rumours about his future have been on the rise yet again. 


City's interest is no longer absolute, with Pep Guardiola's champions doing pretty well without an out and out centre forward. One team who's goalscoring inadequacies Kane could solve though, is City's cross city rivals Manchester United. With Cristiano Ronaldo very likely to move away if Ralf Ragnick's team do not end up in a Champions League spot, Kane could well fill the gap.


At 28, Kane enters the twilight years of his footballing career. Playing for a team like United boosts his commercial value and in all likelihood means that he plays with the very best in the game. That however, won't quite be enough to satisfy someone who's scored 243 goals on club level, broken multiple premier league records and been England's star man at recent international tournaments, all without having tasted any sort of success in major tournaments. 


It both makes sense and doesn't for a player like Kane to move to United. Former Aston Villa striker Gabby Agbonlahor seems to think the latter.