Has greed for gold come in the way of the proposed expansion of a wildlife sanctuary in Chhattisgarh, located close to a vast underground reserve of gold? Owing to the presence of gold near Barnawapara Wildlife Sanctuary, the Chhattisgarh state government’s proposal to expand it to provide more living space to flora and fauna within the densely populated protected area has been awaiting finalisation for more than five years.
The expansion proposal was first mooted by the Raman Singh-led Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) government of Chhattisgarh in October 2017. Following the election of a Congress government to power in the state in December 2018, the proposal has seen little headway.
“Barnawapara wildlife sanctuary is one of the most densely populated sanctuaries in the entire country in terms of the number of wild animals. The proposal to expand the boundaries of the sanctuary had been mooted because species of animals that are found within the sanctuary are also present in substantial numbers in areas along the periphery. The areas that had been identified for inclusion within the wildlife sanctuary are those which were found to be repeatedly chosen by wild animals for breeding,” said a senior official of the forest department of Chhattisgarh.
The Barnawapara Wildlife Sanctuary – containing animals including leopard, sloth bear, bison, sambar, spotted deer, nilgai, and chausingha (four-horned antelope) – in Mahasamund district of Chhattisgarh is spread over an area of 245 square kilometres which is roughly equivalent to 24,500 hectares of land. 
In a letter dated 6 October 2017, the then Principal Chief Conservator of Forests (Wildlife) of Chhattisgarh wrote to the department’s headquarters to include 22 different compartments of reserved forests, with a cumulative area measuring 5,114.87 hectares of land within the wildlife sanctuary in order to expand it.
“The huge parcel of forest land was sought for inclusion within the wildlife sanctuary because it was noticed that wild animals were frequenting certain places within it for the purpose of breeding. The movement of female species of animals is generally restricted during the breeding season. 
Read more https://theprobe.in/greed-for-gold-in-the-way-of-expansion-of-wildlife-sanctuary-in-chhattisgarh/