by Himanshu Kala

An EV or an electric vehicle is either partially or fully powered on electric power. These vehicles have a low running cost and, therefore, are easy on people’s budgets, and they are also believed to be an environmentally viable option as they use little or no fossil fuels.


India’s electric vehicle industry is pegged to grow at a Compound Annual Growth Rate (CAGR) of 43.13 per cent from 2019 to 2030, according to the Research and Markets’ India Electric Vehicle Ecosystem Market Outlook 2030. The future of the electric vehicle industry looks promising in India, but the recent spate of incidents related to electric vehicles has fuelled much speculation that these vehicles may be budget-friendly but may not be entirely safe to use for the consumer.
Recently, Ola Electric recalled 1441 units of its electric two-wheelers after incidents of the vehicle catching fire were reported in the media. Though Ola has maintained that the company is taking serious cognisance of the March 26 fire incident in Pune and has launched an investigation to find out what caused the fire, insiders say that the company is already feeling the pinch following the recent incidents related to its electric two-wheeler line.

The Pune March 26 incident was related to a video of the company’s electric scooter catching fire. Following this incident, the government also ordered a probe into the case and deputed a team of experts to the site to investigate the matter. On the same day, another incident was reported in Vellore in Tamil Nadu, where a father and a daughter were killed in an Okinawa electric vehicle explosion.

In April, Okinawa also recalled 3215 units of its “Praise Pro” scooters. Okinawa was in the news after its dealership in Tamilnadu got engulfed in flames. The company, however, has maintained that the fire was due to an electric short circuit in the panel wiring in the building.

Several news reports had emerged in the last many months on EVs catching fire across the country. Recently, in Vijayawada, an EV battery blast killed one and injured two others. 

Read the full story here:- https://theprobe.in/has-the-recent-spate-of-electric-vehicle-fire