The English Premier League is by far the best football league in the world. It is not only the quality of football and competitiveness of the league that makes it so special, but the passion of the fans also contributes a lot in maintaining it’s prestige as the best league in the world. 

However, apart from their immense support for their club, English fans are also well known for their increduble chants that are heard during the matches. In this article, we shall be talking about some of the most hilarious chants ever in Premier League history. 

10. The City is yours,

The City is yours,

20,000 empty seats,

Are you f**king sure?

The rivalry between the two clubs of Manchester - Manchester City and Manchester United, is pretty well known. Although City has been clearly ahead of their rivals in the last few years, United fans do not forget to put the Cityzens in place with chants like this. 

9. We never win, We never win (x4)

We are the Rangers, the mighty Rangers we never win away.

Self-banter is rarely seen in the Premier League league but when it indeed does happen, it’s hilarious. Rangers fans once chanted this during a match that they were losing. 

8. “Your teeth are offside, your teeth are offside, Luis Suarez, your teeth are offside”

Manchester United fans sang this in a match against Liverpool when the Reds’ striker Luis Suarez was offside. Luis Suarez was often bantered back in those days for his overly protruding teeth. 

7. 'Chelsea, Chelsea, wherever you may be, Don't leave your wife with John Terry. His dad deals coke, His mum steals tea, He cried when he missed a penalty...'

Both Chelsea fans and rival fans sung this for John Terry after he was found having an affair with the girlfriend of his then-England teammate Wayne Bridge. 

6. 'He's red, he's sound, he's banned from every ground, Carra's dad, Carra's dad.'

Surprisingly, this was sung by Liverpool fans themselves after Jamie Carragher’s father was arrested at a match for being overly drunk.