Two developments are lending credence to possibilities of a big political upheaval in Bihar within the next 72 hours. First, the directive of chief minister Nitish Kumar to the JDU MLAs to remain in capital Patna for the next 72 hours. Second, Kumar taking off on an unannounced and sudden trip to Rajgir. 

Among the stories that abound about Kumar is the narrative that he, ahead of taking a major political decision, makes a trip to Rajgir. His decision to break out of the "mahagathbandhan" government in 2017 had also been preceded by a trip to Rajgir. 

Known for his unpredictable shifts and turns, Kumar seems to have reached a breakpoint with the BJP, the bigger alliance partner of the NDA. Much to the discomfiture of the saffron party, he has decided to convene an all-party meeting to discuss the idea of a caste census for Bihar. "After taking views of leaders of different parties, the state cabinet will pass a resolution and the process of caste census will be started", Kumar said. The all-party meeting is likely to be held on May 27. 

The BJP, after having supported the Kumar government's resolution in the Bihar assembly favouring the caste census, appears to have taken a U-turn. Reacting to Kumar's recent initiative, Bihar BJP spokesman Nikhil Anand said: "Do some regional parties think that caste census is the panacea for all ills of Indian society? We are not directly and strictly opposed to caste census, but the time frame, complications and preparations are also important". Anand went on to say that " Those demanding a caste census must first ask the Congress why they have betrayed the OBCs since Independence and in 2011 by spoiling the caste census". 

If he does pursue the caste census plan, Kumar will evidently be attempting to repeat the "Kamandal Versus Mandal"campaign in Indian politics ahead of the 2024 Lok Sabha elections. Despite having been an alliance partner of the BJP for more than a decade, Kumar has retained his socialist moorings. At age 71, he seems preparing for another rumbustious political battle to establish his legacy on the country's and Bihar politics. 