The longer you live through a crisis, the less likely you are to fully appreciate that you’re in one. This is especially true if there is more than one crisis, and they overlap.

In Australia, we’ve experienced several in the past few years: bushfires and floods turbo-charged by climate change, and an enduring pandemic. These events have all taken place during my time as President of the Australian Academy of Science. As my term draws to a close, I’ve paused to reflect on how we’ve managed these overlapping events.

My observation is this: our natural human ability to absorb and respond to the shock and stress of a crisis, while usually a strength, is not serving us well when it comes to complex and sustained crises. Put differently, we appear to have become complacent. Perhaps a better explanation is that we have “crisis fatigue”.

How else to explain the lack of discussion about the fundamental role of science during this election campaign?
Our future depends on science

There has been no serious national dialogue concerning climate change and very little talk about the pandemic, which is not over nor likely to be our last. Next to nothing has been said of the role of science in supporting our defence and national security and its role in equipping the public with essential life skills.

Science is about far more than crisis management. It’s about how we understand our present and future, and realise our potential as people.

Both major parties talk about a stronger and better future, with a growing economy and more jobs. But what should this look like?

The Australian Academy of Science offers four recommendations:

secure the scientific base through a long-term investment strategy for science
establish a Parliamentary Science Office
undertake a national, whole-of-government review of the science and research system
advance a cohesive, national approach to secure jobs through the translation of science to industry.

Read more - https://theconversation.com/australias-future-depends-on-science-heres-what-our-next-government-needs-to-do-about-it-182756