According to the CEO of the Netherlands, money and commercial interests are the real reasons Qatar was awarded the hosting rights.
Louis van Gaal has slammed FIFA's "ridiculous" decision to allow Qatar to host the 2022 World Cup, calling the governing body's stated reasons "bullsh*t."

The announcement that the competition would be held in Qatar in December 2010 sparked outrage throughout the football world.

Reports of thousands of migrant workers dying during stadium construction in Qatar, as well as the country's human rights violations and concerns about the safety of LGBT fans, have prompted calls for Qatar to be stripped of the tournament.

What's been said so far?

Many players and coaches have expressed their displeasure with the decision to hold the World Cup in Qatar, and Netherland’s coach Van Gaal is the latest to do so.

"I have already mentioned it in previous press conferences. I think it's ridiculous that the World Cup is there," he told reporters on Monday.

“We are playing in a country that FIFA says they want to develop football there. That's bullshit, but it doesn't matter. It's about money, about commercial interests. That matters in FIFA.

"Why do you think I'm not on any committee at FIFA or UEFA with my expertise? Because I have always opposed these kinds of organizations.
"I can say that in Qatar later, but that won't help the world get rid of this problem."

The latest to speak out is Van Gaal.

Many players and national teams have already expressed their displeasure with Qatar's World Cup bid.

Last year, before World Cup qualifying matches, Norway, the Netherlands, and Germany protested Qatar's human rights record by wearing t-shirts with messages onto the field.

Meanwhile, Germany player Toni Kroos claimed in March that the country's hosting rights were "wrong."

Last week in Zurich, FIFA met with representatives from Amnesty International to address "the plight of migrant workers in Qatar."

The World Cup is scheduled to begin on November 21 and end on December 18.