Honestly, children don't care a whit if a man marries a woman, a woman marries a woman, or a man marries a man - until adults come along and scribble intolerance on their innocent minds. Kids are unconcerned. They see happy people, and it makes them happy to see happy people. It is a desire to be happy. They don't perceive it as part of any larger philosophical framework; they simply believe that happiness is nice and sadness isn't.

Not to tell parents how to parent but it's very important to make your children appreciate and respect people different from them, in this case queer people, and to do so, it's crucial to create a home atmosphere that's not bigoted – cis or heteronormative. Let them explore, show them the beauty of diversity.

But hey, who doesn't enjoy a good children's book with lovely, fun characters and pretty pictures? Here are some LGBTQ+ inclusive books that your babies will enjoy!

"My Magic Family," by Lotte Jeffs and Sharon Davey

One little girl with two mummies discovers the various ways in which all families are magical. This picture book is all sorts of beautiful and warm.

"What Are Your Words?: A Book About Pronouns," by Katherine Locke

Ari's story is an excellent introduction to gender inclusive pronouns for our little readers, through the lens of two nonbinary writers,

"Two Grooms on a Cake," by Rob Sanders and Robbie Cathro

This is the story of Jack Baker and Michael McConnell and their inspiring story becoming the first married gay couple in the US fifty years ago, long before marriage equality was the law of the land.

"When Aidan Became a Brother," by Kyle Lukoff, illustrated by Kaylani Juanita

A heartwarming tale of a transgender boy, who just has one goal in mind as of now : be the best big brother! The story doesn't exactly focus on his gender identity alone, but his journey of preparing for his new sibling.

"Uncle Bobby's Wedding,"  by Sarah S. Brannen

Uncle Bobby is getting married to Jamie. Will this take away 'his favorite person' position from his niece Chloe? :(