The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) changed three chief ministers in Uttarakhand in about three months last year, hoping that it would be able to defeat the anti-incumbency against its government. 

It isn't that easy though. The strong anti-incumbency factor is resonating on the ground. 

The Congress has sought to tap  public anger by raising the issues of price rise, unemployment, distress migration apart from the government's handling of the Covid-19 pandemic. 

Sensing that the ground was slipping beneath it's feet as the Congress was getting a good response, the BJP went back to the drawing board to stem the slide.

 Polarisation seemed to be the best option. 

It upped the ante by raising the polarising issues of uniform civil code, alleged influx of Rohingya Muslims and the forced migration due to a demographic imbalance. A claim that former chief minister and Congress party's campaign committee chairman Harish Rawat had accepted a demand for setting up a "Muslim university" in the state soon dominated the poll narrative.

To strengthen this perception, it was added that it was Rawat who had allowed Muslim employees in the government to offer Friday prayers during his tenure. 

Rawat is seen on every news channel denying that he had given any assurance of setting up a "Muslim university".

Are Muslims influential enough to change the poll outcome in Uttarakhand?

Muslims constitute about 14% of Uttarakhand's approximately 1.1 crore population, according to the 2011 census. They are mainly concentrated in pockets of Haridwar, Udham Singh Nagar, Haldwani, Dehradun, Nainital and Almora, accounting for around 20 of the total 70 seats. 

On the other hand, Hindus constitute about 83% while remaining 3% are Sikhs, Jains, Christians and Buddhists. The two dominant Hindu castes are Brahmins and Thakurs, constituting 25% and 35% respectively. The Dalits comprise around 19%. So, the Muslims can play a crucial role just less than one-third seats and that is a substantial figure. Hence, the need to polarise the polls. 