Even as Omicron BA.2 is more transmissible than BA.1, it will not cause another surge, a COVID task force clarified and added that those who have been infected by BA.1 might not be infected by stealth Omicron. This comes at a time when recent lab studies indicated that the recently identified subvariant could cause as severe infections as the Delta and other variants. 
What do experts say on the Omicron BA.2 subvariant?

"It will not cause another surge. BA.2 is not capable of infecting people who had BA.1. It's not a new virus or strain. BA.2 is a sub-lineage of Omicron," explained Dr Rajeev Jayadevan, Co-Chairman National IMA COVID Task Force, as quoted by news agency ANI.

BA.2 is a little bit more transmissible than BA.1. For the last two years, it has constantly evolved to increase its fitness, which is its ability to infect more people and to leap past natural immunity and vaccinated immunity," he said.
Previously, WHO had pointed out that even though it is more transmissible than BA.1, the severity level of both the subvariant is the same. 

Should we be worried about the variant? 

Last week, lab studies in Japan indicated that BA.2 can cause more severe infections than BA.1. The researchers said although BA.2 is considered as an Omicron variant, its genomic sequence is heavily different from BA.1. The study also said that the sub-variant does not respond to treatment like monoclonal antibody and shows immune escape properties.

Citing a study conducted on hamsters in Japan, Dr Jayadevan said that BA.2 may cause severe lung disease. "As of today, symptoms of Omicron are no different between BA.1 and BA.2. So there is no difference in severity. However, there is a study from Japan done on hamsters. In this study, hamsters showed that BA.2 involved the lungs more than BA.1."
The focus of the study is based on a lab study. It is important to understand here, virologists explore multiple theories and test them using certain assumptions to represent a certain attribute or the other. Also, it is to be noted that the study is yet to be peer-reviewed.

Source : https://www.livemint.com