1. What’s Wrong With Secretary Kim
One of the best parts about this series, besides the fiery chemistry between the two main leads, is seeing how quickly this relationship moves. Within the first two episodes, you have Young Joon telling Mi So that he will marry her in hopes that she will continue to be his secretary. 

2. Nevertheless
Two lovebirds don’t start their relationship in the most ideal way, but it eventually works itself out. This angsty series involves a very complicated relationship between two university students, and although there is a lot of back and forth when it comes to them committing to an exclusive relationship, the physical aspects and the emotions progress rather quickly.

3. Pretty Noona Who Buys Me Food
The sweetest and most adorable part about this series is seeing this noona romance come to life so quickly. There is not much time to anticipate the two main leads falling in love and starting their relationship as the feelings are very much there within the first couple episodes. 

4. Descendants of the Sun
The romance in this series is particularly quick, mainly because Yoo Shi Jin falls in love at first sight with Kang Mo Yeon. Within the first couple of episodes, we have Shi Jin making advances to Mo Yeon, showing his feelings for her rather quickly. The romance develops at full speed from this point on, but there are some obstacles that get in the way of the two being happy together.

5. Search: WWW
Talk about a quick-burn romance! You have the two main leads sleeping together in a hotel room in the very first episode. It was a bit shocking to see this happen in a series, but there was nothing to complain about as the romance turned into an epic one. 

6. Encounter
This quick-burn love story between Soo Hyun and Jin Hyuk first begins with Cuba as the backdrop, and we really couldn’t have asked for a more beautiful setting. Within the first two episodes, the two main leads are able to break down walls and dance the night away in a Cuban bar.