In the wake of mass killings in Uvalde, Texas, and elsewhere in the United States, more than 600 conservative gun rights advocates, including several big Republican funders, are pressing Congress to approve gun control legislation.

A group of mostly Texas residents signed an open letter in support of expanding background checks for gun purchases, passing "red flag" laws to deny firearms to people deemed a risk to themselves or the public, and raising the minimum age to buy some guns to 21 from 18. The group was organised by Todd Maclin, a former senior executive at J.P. Morgan Chase.

The contributors' stance on guns reflects a substantial, if minor, departure from Republican orthodoxy. Despite widespread support for safety measures including as background checks and rising calls for reforms in the aftermath of the Texas massacre, the party has demonstrated little tolerance for support for any additional firearms restrictions.

After an 18-year-old gunman massacred 19 children and two teachers at Robb Elementary School in Uvalde, Texas, the self-described gun enthusiasts and Second Amendment advocates behind the open letter claimed they were eager to discuss innovative strategies to reduce gun violence.

"The challenges are extremely complex, and thoughtful non-political solutions are required," the letter stated.

Texas Governor Greg Abbott has stated that tighter gun legislation will not prevent future tragedies, and that lawmakers should instead focus on improving mental health access and school security.

Abbott, a Republican running for reelection in November, did not respond to a question about whether he would accept any of the policies proposed by any of his major contributors.
According to political finance disclosures, Rowling and his firm have given almost $21 million to Republican politicians and party-aligned organisations at the state and federal levels over the last decade. Abbott's three gubernatorial campaigns received roughly $1.5 million in donations.