The metaphors the monks had lot of cultural effect .These images were often violent and misogynist-The symbols are of guns ,bombs, robbery , unrequited love,demons ,rakshas ,chudail, curses ,Shiva , atma, bhagvan and it looks like a whole lot of influence from television that breeds popular culture .There is often war, depicted in the young monks art work, paper objects often depict military invasion and they often have narratives that are violent. The younger children the more restless they were and the stories reflect the violence. The Buddhist values are missing in their narratives even if the monastery are Buddhist. There was a lot of conversation about love and the betrayal of love. Working in two different monasteries brought out different variation. The monks at one monastery were far more gentle and profound about love. In other monasteries women are looked upon as other, a vamp, a witch to be destroyed/ gotten rid off as they were dangerous. In both the groups, the  younger children would often fight and would be less focused. In one monastery the children could not sustain their attention for too long. In other if a fight broke, it would take long to restore order. In one monastery the work with the thermacol was very beautiful, very neat, almost clinical showing that the institutional structure was very imposing, in contrast their drawing were really messy. In sculpting the jail that came about in a story, the children took a very long time to make the jail and this was an indicator of what they were working against. In one monastery, the structures were not so neat and precise but less creative and imaginative compared to the other as things were not as regimented.The children had a sense of freedom and violent play station influenced them whereas here in other monasteries, phones were not allowed, so television and popular culture had a stronger effect on their imagination. The use of creative skills to build these stories help in creating antidotes to the wound of oppression, desire that often afflicts these young minds contrary to the values the robes hold .