A recent report by Oxfam International has found that 62 new “food billionaires” were created during the pandemic. The report, released ahead of this year’s World Economic Forum in Davos, Switzerland, highlights the record profits made by industry titans.

Food and agribusiness billionaires reportedly raised their collective wealth by 42 per cent in the past two years, all while global food prices soared by 33.6 per cent in 2021, and are expected to rise by another 23 per cent in 2022.

Cargill, the food company giant, is expected to report record profits this year, surpassing even last year’s record-breaking US$5 billion. Indeed, three members of the Cargill family joined the Bloomberg Billionaires list in mid-April.

Canadian food corporations are also posting strong growth. Loblaws reported that its first-quarter earnings rose almost 40 per cent compared to last year.

Sky-rocketing food inflation
While inflation is caused by several factors, one of the more pernicious can be traced back to the extreme levels of corporate concentration along the food supply chain.

The pandemic initially exposed cracks in our supposedly efficient industrialized food system through supply chain breakdowns, worker shortages and trade restrictions. Now, we can add high food prices and growing inequality to the list.

Food price inflation has grown much faster than general inflation for decades. Canada’s general inflation rate is at its highest since 1991, and the food inflation rate in the country has reached 7.4 per cent.

According to this year’s Canada Food Price report, the average grocery bill increased by a whopping 70 per cent between 2000 and 2020, and median incomes have not kept pace.

In the midst of this, companies have experienced record profits. This indicates that they have the market power to insulate themselves from these shocks by passing the risk along to the consumer.

Read more: https://theconversation.com/food-giants-reap-enormous-profits-during-times-of-crisis-184223