With the frenzy of the trade deadline now firmly in the rearview mirror, the NBA world turns its collective attention to Cleveland: home to a damn good team, and the site where basketball’s best and brightest will soon strut their stuff at 2022 All-Star Weekend. Here are a handful of things to keep an eye on as we get set for three days of frivolity, brand activations, and sure-to-be-spirited exhibition play in Northeast Ohio:

Will anything memorable happen in the celebrity game?

As a cultural tastemaker who is completely plugged into the zeitgeist, and who is not at all a stone-washed 39-year-old father of two, I of course am extremely familiar with every celebrity, influencer, extreme sports athlete, reality show star, and Peloton instructor on both celebrity game rosters. My pick for MVP? I put down $10,000 on both Curbes Lurb and Colton Burpo, just to be safe.

Past notable happenings at the celebrity game include, but are not limited to, Justin Bieber doing push-ups, a kid from Stranger Things doing the splits, secretary of education Arne Duncan unleashing all manner of high-socked old-man game, and Win Butler from Arcade Fire talking electoral politics with Sage Steele. Which is to say: It typically has precious little to do with basketball, and shit can get weird. Some potential noteworthy things we could see this year:

Las Vegas Aces dynamo Dearica Hamby just punishing Jack Harlow on the block. I’m talking repeated deep seals, mean-spirited backdowns, and just straight up putting Tyler Herro’s main dude in the basket.

Browns All-Pro Myles Garrett briefly forgetting what he signed up for and simply bull-rushing the fuck out of Machine Gun Kelly.

Cleveland mayor Justin Bibb being forced to resign in disgrace once Woj breaks the news that event sponsor Ruffles paid him to shave points.

Skateboard legend Nyjah Huston spending the entire second quarter teaching Cavs legend Daniel “Booby” Gibson—yes, of course he’s a legend, it says so right there on the press release—how to ollie over a prone Moondog.

Bill Walton coming out of the evening with two new best friends: Quavo and Anderson Varejao.

Read more
https://www.theringer.com/nba/2022/2/17/22937527/nba-all-star-game-dunk-contest-preview