Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky says Ukraine has recaptured thousands of square kilometres of territory from Russian forces in a matter of days in a counteroffensive near Kharkiv. Kyiv has been revelling in this battlefield success.
Ukraine also says recent offensive operations in the south were a successful ruse to draw Russian forces away from the Kharkiv region.
In Moscow, President Vladimir Putin’s government has so far been silent on unfolding events, although Russian state media has acknowledged Ukrainian successes. While there may be good military reasons for secrecy, Moscow’s claim that the retreat of Russian forces in the region is part of a regrouping for operations further south is damaging its credibility.
Russian forces have clearly retreated near Kharkiv. Not only to those in the West, but also in Russia, it appears that Putin has lost control of the situation.
War efforts publicly questioned
Putin’s popularity in Russia remains buoyant — as does support for his so-called special military operation in Ukraine. That support, however, is contingent upon a degree of success.
When prominent bloggers who support the war and Putin’s lieutenant on the ground, Chechen leader Ramzan Kadyrov, start to publicly question how the war is going, even Putin has to take note.
As the war currently stands, Russia has a big problem with manpower in Ukraine. It’s not that Russia doesn’t have large armed forces — on paper, the Russian armed forces have more than 800,000 active personnel. However, a significant proportion of those troops cannot easily be sent to Ukraine.
About a third of Russia’s active forces are conscripts. At the beginning of the war, Putin pledged not to send them to Ukraine or call up more reservists. Not only are conscripts not supposed to serve abroad, but there are also ostensible safeguards against conscripts being sent into combat with insufficient training.
Some conscripts were apparently mistakenly deployed in Ukraine, but those who sent them have reportedly been punished.
Read more: https://theconversation.com/what-is-vladimir-putins-next-move-in-the-face-of-ukrainian-battlefield-victories-190419