City conceding goals
City managed to come back against Crystal Palace with the help of Erling Haaland's maiden hattrick in the English Premier league (4-2). 
Proficient manager Pep Guardiola might be having total faith in his attack, but, he may be having some doubts in mind about his defense. Pep, who doesn't like conceding goals and keeping things clean, have already conceded 5 goals in the opening 4 games of the season. In the previous season, when they were champions, Manchester City have conceded just 26 goals in 38 games. Just 1 goal was conceded in that season from 4 matches, scoring 11 goals. Those were against Tottenham Hotspur, Leicester City, Arsenal and Norwich. In the 2020-21 season, total goals conceded were 32 only. 
In the season opener FA Community Shield cup final against Liverpool, City had conceded 3 goals and lost the match. Newcastle United held them for a 3-3 draw in the previous match. In a friendly against Barcelona also, they conceded 3 goals. 
City is strong with the ball, keeping possession (69% against Newcastle and 75% against Crystal Palace) and attacking numbers. They have dominated in the middle and final third, taking 21 shots against Newcastle and 18 against Crystal Palace. 
In the match against Newcastle, Ake started instead of Ruben Diaz, but Pep kept the same four defenders against Crystal Palace- Kyle Walker, Ruben Diaz, John Stones, and Joao Cancelo.  He changed his formation into a balanced 4-2-3-1 from usual attacking 4-3-3 in the last match. Bernardo Silva and Rodri as central defensive midfielders, Kevin De Bruyne, Mehrez and Foden as attacking midfielders. Haaland was the lone striker of the match. 
Haaland, who joined Manchester City this season has already scored 6 from 4 matches. If his first two goals against Crystal Palace were results of his position, the third showed his class and strength. Gundogan played the ball into the feet of Haaland and the striker used his strength to body Ward and slot the ball past Guaita. Ruthless finishing from Haaland. He is giving big warning to Premier league opponents. 