The decision of the Committee of Administrators (CoA) to allow eminent footballers from the past to become part of the electoral college in the elections of the All India Football Federation (AIFF) came under severe criticism – even the FIFA, the governing body of world football didn’t like it. It was one of the few decisions that put the CoA on the backfoot; the FIFA decision to ban India came as a huge blow for the nation and the football fans. Though there is every possibility that in the next few days the Supreme Court of India may strike down its own decision to allow eminent footballers to be part of AIFF elections, the federation is currently continuing with the electoral process in line with the previous order of the Supreme Court.
The procedure has thrown up a few good things too – the biggest being former India captain and legendary striker Bhaichung Bhutia throwing in his hat for the post of president. He filed his nomination for the post along with six other candidates. When asked why he filed his nomination when there is every possibility of the entire electoral process could be changed by the Supreme Court, Bhaichung said: “The honourable Supreme Court has given us an opportunity. I wanted to avail it and do something better for the game. If tomorrow Supreme Court decides otherwise, then it’s a different matter altogether.”   
Bhaichung is the most prominent name among the seven applications filed so far for the AIFF president’s post. The other names are former goalkeeper Kalyan Chaubey, Manvinder Singh, Shaji Prabhakaran, N.A. Harris, Ajit Banerjee and Valanka Alemao. On FIFA banning India, Bhiachung said: “I think that FIFA suspending the AIFF was a bit of a harsh decision, but at the same time it has also given an opportunity to get the system right and make sure that all the stakeholders work and get the right people for the betterment of football and take it further.” If elected, Bhaichung could be the first international footballer to head the AIFF.