Manchester United are set to make a late move for Barcelona forwards Ousmane Dembele. The Frenchman hasn’t renewed his contract with the Catalan club and with the Blaugranas also pulling their initial offer, he will become a free agent in the summer. However, several clubs are trying to sign the winger on the deadline day of the January transfer window.


PSG already have verbally agreed on a deal with Barcelona over Dembele’s transfer but Manchester United have now made a late contact with the player’s entourage ..


Barcelona has investigated whether Ousmane Dembele could go to Arsenal as part of a deal to send Pierre-Emerick Aubameyang the other way if they are to register him in the squad.


His primary position is a right-winger, but he can play as a left-winger too.


Wherever he goes, the team will get a player who has 36 goals in 7 seasons. He could have even more, had he hadn't spent most of his time in the operation  table. Its a pity, this season  he couldn't register his name as he has played very less matches.

He ranks high in total shots which he created with 3.8, having 86 percentile.

If we go by his stats, then he ranks high in ball creation with 97 percentile in shots creation and 88 percentile in goal creating actions.

He also ranks high in touches in the danger zone. He ranks 99 percentile in attacking third and 97 percentile in the attacking penalty, making him dangerous inside the box.


Dembele is an amazing ball carrier, with him particularly dangerous in the danger zone, ranking both 99 percentile in the final third and the penalty box.



I've analysed the match between Barcelona and Levante for the 2020/21 season.

He contributed 1 goal and he had xG of 0.37.

From the below radar, he ranks high in interception.
  
Even though Dembele, who was bought for 147 mill euros flopped in Barca, could again reignite his career in the new club, if he stays injury free. With a few hours to deadline, it remains to be seen where he will end up. Watch this space