From the club’s inception, Juventus Women have dominated Serie A, grabbing win after win. And this year has been no different: they are the champions of Italy once again.

MAKING A HABIT OF MAKING HISTORY

Every year, the Bianconere have rewritten the history books, both in terms of their own journey and Italian women’s football. It’s seems hardly surprising now when another record is broken or another trophy is added to the cabinet, but it really is something else that these achievements have become a regular occurrence, just part and parcel of what we now expect. The way in which this group is able to improve and constantly better themselves means that anything is possible. Whether it’s the smiles that come from great moments, the desire to share every success, the refusal to ever give up or the ability to get it together when things become difficult, these are just some of the factors that have made the extraordinary ordinary in this group. Every year it gets even tougher and every year Juve get even better. 

CONTINUITY THROUGH CHANGE

More than any other title race, this one has been about change. With the arrival of Joe Montemurro, it’s the first year that the club has seen a new coach come in. There’s been a desire to let go of certainties in order to develop even further. Every change brings with it some form of risk, especially when from an outsider’s perspective, no changes seem necessary. Taking a different path when it already seems like you’ve reached your destination requires vision and plenty of courage. Juve Women have welcomed this change with open arms. 

THANK YOU, BIANCONERE

These victories deserve to be celebrated and enjoyed, and we should thank these women for what they have given us, for the emotions they’ve brought us, for the real passion they bring to each game, making every training session and match something special. For a team like this, the sky's the limit: a fifth scudetto on the bounce raises the bar even higher. Having pride in what has been achieved will bring momentum for the future, and that is something special