In response to today's Lok Sabha debate on rising costs, Union Minister Nirmala Sitharaman outlined all the criteria used to examine the economy and stated that there is no risk of a recession or stagflation in the nation. The Congress staged a walkout in the middle of her response, claiming they were unsatisfied with it.

"We have managed to keep inflation at or below 7 percent despite the pandemic, the second Covid wave, Omicron, and Russia-Ukraine. And that must be acknowledged," Sitharaman said.

According to Sitharaman food and fuel prices have increased the most. She continues, "Food inflation is declining globally, and it will decline in India as well. Inflation reached double digits from 2004 to 2014, when the UPA was in power. For 22 consecutive months during that time, the inflation rate exceeded 9 percent, according to her. Ms. Sitharaman claimed that despite the US GDP declining in the second quarter after increasing by 1.9% in the first, India is still better placed than other countries.

"This was known as the unofficial recession. The risk of India entering a recession is 0%, according to a Bloomberg survey of analysts, she added. After 10 days of parliamentary chaos during which the opposition insisted on a discussion on price increases, the finance minister finally responded. Pralhad Joshi, minister of parliamentary affairs, made a proposal to lift the suspension of four Congress members. She referred to the other economic factors as follows: "Commercial banks have the lowest level of NPAs (non-performing assets) in six years.

In response to the Centre's claim that Congress' purchase of fuel bonds is to blame for the increase in fuel prices, Mr. Misra stated that the Centre has collected 27.27 lakh crore in fuel taxes. Kakoli Ghosh Dastidar of the Trinamool Congress stated while munching on a raw brinjal: "The rates of LPG cylinder have increased four times in the last several months." Has it increased from 600 to 1,100? Does the government want us to eat raw vegetables?