In 2016, South African economist Francis Wilson was awarded an honorary doctorate by the University of Cape Town. Nominators of a person for this highest honorary degree get to select from one of two criteria:

On grounds of exceptional scholarship in accordance with the ideals and principles of the university

On grounds of exceptional other achievement or public service in accordance with the ideals and principles of the university.

Those nominating Francis, who passed away in April 2022, ticked both boxes. And as the nomination wended its way through the notoriously fractious processes of senate and council there was no contesting this.

Francis made a unique contribution to documenting and analysing key historical and contemporary social issues affecting South African society. Even more rare was how he used his research and that of others to promote social change for good in South Africa.

The heart of his contribution lies, quite uniquely, in the space between the two hononary doctorate criteria. He had a lifetime of exceptional contributions to scholarship and of taking these into the public domain to fight for a just society.

Rock-solid research
Francis returned to South Africa – and the University of Cape Town – after completing a PhD in Cambridge. In 1971 and 1972 he published three pieces of research that individually and collectively have been immensely influential.

In 1971 Farming 1866-1966 was published as a chapter in the Oxford History of South Africa. Then, in 1972, Labour in the South African Gold Mines 1911-1969 was published by Cambridge University Press out of his PhD. Finally, a book, Migrant Labour in South Africa was published.

Taken together these works tell a connected story of the economics of the gold mines and their need for cheap labour, the decimation of rural life in South Africa to effect this supply of migrant labour, and the terrible social consequences of this system for these migrants and their households.

Read more - https://theconversation.com/tribute-to-renowned-south-african-economist-francis-wilson-184181