1. Sassy, Go Go 
 Sassy, Go Go, is set within the walls of a toxic and competitive high school environment that solely bases achievements on numbered ranks and scores. Luckily, thanks to the great friendship and camaraderie that eventually builds among its students, the kids of Sevit High School form a cheerleading squad and are able to weather through the absurdities of the institution together.

2. . Chicago Typewriter
Three resistance fighters from the 1930s Japanese occupation of Korea reincarnate as depressed best-selling author Han Se-joo, talented ghostwriter Yu Jin-oh, and all-around expert Jeon Seol, in the 21st century. This fantasy romance drama follows the trio as they still somehow manage to find each other 80 years later, while in the midst of piecing together the truth behind their fragmented past.

. Dear My Friends
Dragged along for casual hangouts with her mother’s friends, Jo Hee-ja, Moon Jung-ah, Oh Choong-nam, and Lee Yeong-won, the young Park Wan unexpectedly develops a fascinating bond with her new elderly pals. As she hears about the eventful happenings that occurred during their twilight years, she’s soon inspired to write a novel about them. 

4. Boys Over Flowers
 iconic K-drama adaptation of the original Japanese manga The plot follows a sequence of unfortunate events that lead to athletic scholar Geum Jan-di finding herself acquainted with F4, the most powerful, influential, and notorious friend group of Shinhwa High school. Her social status already makes her feel out of place among her wealthy schoolmates, but her situation does not get any easier with the greater turmoil she’s put into once she finds herself caught between dramatic yet eventuful lives of Goo Joon-pyo, Yoon Ji-hoo, So Yi-jung, and Song Woo-bin. 

5. Fight for My Way
Ko Dong-man is a contract employee who aspires to become a renowned mixed martial artist. On the other hand, his childhood friend, Choi Ae-ra, wishes to trade her information desk job at the department store for that of a television announcer’s. The wholesome bond they share as friends becomes the source of their strength as they encourage each other to chase and achieve their own dream jobs, despite their seeimng “third-rate” qualifications.