The Taliban's refusal to reopen secondary girls' schools in Afghanistan has provoked strong reactions.

Human Rights Watch has called the Taliban's breach of promise "extremely cruel." Amnesty International has expressed deep concern and UNAMA has expressed regret over the decision and called for an explanation from the Taliban.

The Taliban Ministry of Education announced the reopening of all girls 'and boys' schools in the third month of pregnancy by issuing an official statement on the first day of pregnancy, but two days later, contrary to this promise, ordered that " "The mentioned schools will start with the ruling of the leadership of the Islamic Emirate."
"The Taliban's declarations are often very different from their actions," said the deputy human rights watchdog. "As long as there is no objective evidence that girls 'schools are open, no one should believe that the Taliban have lifted the ban on girls' secondary education."

"Two days ago, the Taliban promised to reopen schools, including girls' schools," he wrote in a tweet announcing the reopening of all schools. "It is very cruel that this promise will be broken within two days."

Meanwhile, Motta Nodson, the UN Under-Special Representative for Afghanistan, wrote that the news of the suspension of the reopening of girls' schools was "very sad". He said equal access to education for boys and girls should be guaranteed.

Amnesty International also said it was "deeply concerned" by the news of a change in the Taliban's decision to reopen girls' schools.
Although the female students were waiting for their schools to reopen today, they all returned home in despair when they were told that "schools will be closed until further notice."

"What should I say?" One of the schoolgirls cried in an interview with TOLOnews. We are both human and human. "Why should we not go to school?"

He says he has not been to school for 186 days and it is difficult for him to hear the news of the school reopening suspension. "How long will we not go to school?" He asks.
A question that has not yet received a clear answer.