After David Zaslav put 'Batgirl' on hold and announced a new 10-year strategy, the future of the comic book giant is less apparent than it has been in years.

"We did a reset." That's how Warner Bros. Discovery CEO David Zaslav described DC on August 4, only days after cancelling the $90 million HBO Max feature Batgirl. The billionaire stated that a team would be formed to develop a "ten-year" plan for DC, but it is unknown who will be on that team. And Zaslav slammed former WarnerMedia CEO Jason Kilar's strategy of generating films for direct-to-streaming. "We're going to prioritise quality." "We will not release any film until it is complete," added the CEO. "DC is something we can improve."

According to other individuals who used the same phrase to characterise personnel of the film section, the statements were not well received inside DC. And after learning of the cancellation of Batgirl, DC Films CEO Walter Hamada nearly resigned before being persuaded to stay at least until the Oct. 21 release of Dwayne Johnson's Black Adam. (A June test screening of the film included a new post-credits scene introducing a new element to Johnson's status in the DC Universe.)

Prior to Warners' sale to Discovery, Hamada planned to distribute three or four films every year. The CEO was hired in 2018 to chart a new route for DC after Zack Snyder's road map disintegrated in the aftermath of the disastrous release of Justice League in 2017. A Crisis on Infinite Earths event, based on the landmark DC Comics narrative that was adapted for television on The CW, was said to be among Hamada's plans. Rumors arose that the Secret Six, a villain team that has previously been Suicide Squad opponents, will be introduced.

Warners had films based on Supergirl, Green Lantern Corps and Static Shock in development. Some key collaborators have received assurances their projects are safe. Blue Beetle, starring Xolo Maridueña as DC's first Latino superhero to topline a movie, is on track for 2023 release date.