Real Time Strategy (RTS) may be a very small and specialized component of the entire gaming community, but there are few other subgenres which boast an ecosystem of such high burning passion. RTS genre is substantially different from other genres, for one RTS requires players to actively accumulate various resources such as money, energy, land, minerals etc.

These resources are used to construct various structures, each geared towards a specific task, from your command structure for collecting workers to military barracks for requisitioning various troops from scouts to standard infantry, heavy infantry, specialized units, commanders, transport vehicles, light vehicles, siege vehicles, artillery to armouries for research, defensive turrets etc.

In RTS games, players have to position structures, maneuver units and explore and capture various areas on the map until they reach the enemy base and destroy it. The match is usually over by destroying the enemy command structure, unless faced with a special objective. Some of the core features of RTS games are similar to the desktop interface, requiring players to click, highlight and drag various items, mostly units.

RTS games hold different things for different people. Some players look up to the RTS genre for calmly spending an hour and building a gigantic stronghold with an equally gigantic army to face against an AI opponent, and then have it wipe out the enemy with one massive attack. Other players seek fast-paced quick thinking multiplayer battles against human opponents, where speed, precision and tactical understanding are the core of winning the game. It is often difficult to reconcile these ideas and find a balance for both the groups. Few RTS games have ever managed to do that.




These are some of the top 10 greatest RTS titles of all time, particularly if you wish to try out RTS gaming:


1. Dawn Of War 2 + Chaos Rising
2. Dawn Of War: + Winter Assault+ Dark Crusade
3. Warcraft 3: Reign of Chaos + The Frozen Throne
4. Starcraft
5. Command and Conquer 3: Tiberium Wars
6. Age of Empires 2
7. Age of Mythology
8. Company of Heroes
9. Star Wars: Empire at War
10. Starcraft 2