Prime Minister Anthony Albanese has announced his cabinet after Labor secured enough seats to form a majority government.

At the Labor caucus in Canberra earlier on Tuesday, Albanese said he is seeking to have an even bigger majority after the next election: “My objective is to grow this room. And to grow a Labor government. I think that we can do it.

Richard Marles, deputy prime minister and minister for defence

Marles takes over the defence portfolio from Peter Dutton. Marles was first elected to the seat of Corio, Victoria in 2007.

Penny Wong, minister for foreign affairs and Senate leader

Wong takes over the portfolio from Marise Payne. Wong was first elected to the Senate for South Australia in 2001.

Jim Chalmers, treasurer

Chalmers takes over the portfolio from Josh Frydenberg. Chalmers was first elected to the seat of Rankin, Queensland in 2013.

Katy Gallagher, minister for finance, minister for women, minister for the public service

Gallagher takes over the finance portfolio from Simon Birmingham and the women portfolio from Marise Payne. Gallagher was first elected to the Senate for ACT in 2016, but was ruled void under section 44 of the constitution. She was re-elected to the Senate in 2019.

Don Farrell, minister for trade and tourism, special minister of state, deputy Senate leader

Farrell takes over the portfolio from Dan Tehan. Farrell was first elected to the Senate for South Australia in 2007. He was defeated at general elections in 2013 and re-elected in 2016.

Tony Burke, minister for employment, minister for industrial relations, minister for arts

Burke takes over the employment portfolio from Stuart Robert, industrial relations from Michaelia Cash and arts from Paul Fletcher. Burke was first elected to the seat of Watson, NSW in 2004.

Mark Butler, minister for health and aged care

Butler takes over the portfolio from Greg Hunt. Butler was first elected to the seat of Port Adelaide, South Australia in 2007. He is now the member for Hindmarsh, South Australia after an electoral redistribution in 2019.

Chris Bowen, minister for climate change and energy.

Tanya Plibersek, environment and water minister.

Catherine King, minister for infrastructure, transport and regional development