Under the current scenario, it is the most practical solution. There is this very blunt side of debate either to ban or freely promote. This is a neutral solution.

 Trained teachers give a classroom a fighting possibility during a lockdown situation. If a teacher has a classroom of 20 students who are entangled with an active shooter, the existence of a firearm can help to save lives. Even the understanding that a teacher might be armed could be sufficient to stop an uncertain individual from perpetrating an act of violence.

 They should also have received proper training the school could use special staff for this purpose. At least they reach faster than the police.

Arming teachers would bolster school security.
Our schools are not as strong as they need to be from a security stance. Having a police officer on campus is helpful, particularly with an active shooter, but a handful of armed people cannot be in every room at school all of the time. So a trained teacher would ensure a much safer environment for students.


Of course, it's all up to the parents, if parents don’t like the idea of having armed teachers in the classroom or on campus, then most jurisdictions enable families to work toward putting the issue to a voter referendum.

 That means if there is a disagreement with a school board's decision, then there is a way to override this problem. Before carrying a firearm, most schools compel at least 80 hours of training in the use of force, an indication of weapon knowledge, first aid certification, and an overview of legality concerns before going before the school board for approval.

According to an article from the New York Daily News (dated February 28, 2018), there have been at least six school shootings that were stopped because of the existence of a swift and armed defender dating back to 1997. An armed assistant principal stopped an incident in Pearl, MS. In 1998, a restaurant owner hosting a junior high school dance avoided an incident in Edinboro, PA.