Russia’s invasion into Ukraine and the constantly increasing energy demand has encouraged America’s petroleum lobby to call for loosening regulation on the oil and gas industry and allowing drilling in wide swathes of public land in the US. The pressure by the energy industry leaders is aimed at the Biden administration’s effort to restrict production of fossil fuels introduced to control the emission of polluting gases driving climate change.    

Their argument is that a lid on drilling in America still keeps many countries dependent on Russian oil and natural gas, despite the fact that the US has such a large reserve of petroleum. Even though the US and NATO nations have imposed a wide range of economic sanctions on Russia, in response to its Ukraine invasion, the sanctions haven’t targeted Russian oil or gas much, except Germany’s ban on the Russian gas pipeline Nord Stream 2. The American Petroleum Institute (API), the country’s powerful industry lobby group, wrote on Twitter, “Let’s unleash American energy. Protect our energy security.” They called for strong energy leadership by the US in the crisis. API represents oil giants like Exxon, Chevron and Shell.

Some Republican senators supported the call of API and one of them – Dan Sullivan of Alaska – suggested the Biden administration revive the Keystone XL pipeline system in Canada and the US, cancelled due to environmental concerns. There were also appeals to allow drilling in vulnerable environmental zones in north-western Alaska.   

Environmental groups severely criticised the fossil industry’s push for more drilling, using a critical humanitarian crisis in Ukraine as an excuse. They say such quick fixes to a complex geopolitical crisis will harm the climate in the long run.

Now we have to wait and watch how the Biden administration handles the pressure from the oil and gas lobby, as oil prices crossed $100 per barrel internationally, shortly after Putin’s invasion. The high oil price is soon going to hit the US in a big way raising inflation in the country.  

READ MORE: 

https://www.reuters.com/markets/commodities/us-oil-drilling-rises-response-higher-prices-2022-02-25    

https://www.nytimes.com/2022/02/26/climate/ukraine-oil-lobby-biden-drilling.html

https://www.theguardian.com/world/2022/feb/26/us-fossil-fuel-industry-russia-ukraine-drilling