Finally, after all the entertainment, thrill, fight, and so many goals, fans get the semifinalist of the UEFA Champions League.

On Tuesday, Real Madrid and Villarreal secure their berth in the semifinals after they eliminated Chelsea and Bayern Munich respectively.

Last night, Manchester City and Atletico Madrid match was ended as a draw and with the aggregate score of 0-1, Manchester City qualified for the semifinals.

On the other hand, the match between Liverpool and Benfica also ended as a 3-3 draw but, because of the first leg lead of 1-3, Liverpool secure their berth in the semifinals by an aggregate score of 6-4.

After all the great performances, the semifinals will be played on the 26th and 27th of April and the second leg will be played on the 4th and 5th of May and teams that will lock horns with each other are as follows:-

1. Manchester City vs Real Madrid
2. Liverpool vs Villarreal 

From what I saw in the quarter-finals, nothing is predictable, all four teams have their strengths as well as weaknesses, and whoever holds their nerves perfectly, will win the semifinals.

The match between Manchester City and Real Madrid will be a blockbuster for sure because both teams are playing great football. Manchester City got a great coach and Real Madrid got a great team. So let’s see which will emerge as the winner. 

The match between Liverpool and Villarreal is unpredictable for me at least, because on their day, Liverpool can destroy Villarreal in the first leg only but after beating Juventus and Bayern Munich in the round of 16 and quarterfinals respectively, Villarreal will step on the field with great confidence and Unai Emery will play to pull off another miracle against another Giant team.

As a football fan, I can’t wait for the semifinals and as a Real Madrid fan, I am a little bit nervous because I know Manchester City can be so ruthless on their day but the return leg is at Real Madrid’s home, so yeah, if we perform well, Real Madrid can win against Manchester City.