Test squad: Rohit Sharma (c), Mayank Agarwal, Priyank Panchal, Virat Kohli, Shreyas Iyer, Hanuma Vihari, Shubman Gill, Rishabh Pant (wk), KS Bharat (wk), Ravichandran Ashwin (subject to fitness) , Ravindra Jadeja, Jayant Yadav, Kuldeep Yadav, Jasprit Bumrah (vc), Mohammed Shami, Mohammed Siraj, Umesh Yadav, Saurabh Kumar.


Senior batters Ajinkya Rahane and Cheteshwar Pujara have been dropped from India's Test squad for the home series against Sri Lanka, the BCCI announced on Saturday. The selectors, who also named Rohit Sharma as the new Test captain, have changed the lineups a bit, with wicketkeeper-batsman Wriddhiman Saha and experienced fast bowler Ishant Sharma also getting the axe alongside Rahane and Pujara. Fast bowler Jasprit Bumrah has been announced as vice captain for Rohit.

Chief Selector Chetan Sharma said he spoke to all the four senior players who have been dropped and asked them to play Ranji Trophy while assuring them that the "doors are absolutely open" for them after the Sri Lanka series.

On captaincy, Chetan Sharma said Rohit was the "clear choice" and will remain the Test captain as long as he's fit and available. He also said that there were no other names on the table for Test leadership.

Uncapped left-arm spinner Saurabh Kumar, who represents Uttar Pradesh domestically and was with the India A team in South Africa recently, makes it to squad too after impressing the selection committee on tour. Axar Patel, meanwhile, continues to recover and expected to be fit only by the second Test match in Bengaluru.

All-rounder Ravindra Jadeja, who missed the Mumbai Test against New Zealand and all three Tests in South Africa due to injury, makes a comeback but his long-time spin partner Ravichandran Ashwin will make the final cut subject to fitness.

KS Bharat takes over Saha's spot as the backup keeper. Opener Priyank Panchal, who was a part of the touring party in South Africa recently, retains his spot following the omissions of Rahane and Pujara while Shubman Gill makes a comeback after missing the tour with an injury.