One of the great hopes of French football and sought by many European clubs, Romain Faivre arrives from Stade Brestois. Lyon got their man on the transfer deadline day.


The 23-year-old left-sided midfielder, recognized in particular for his technique and vivacity, the quality of his set pieces as well as a great level of offensive versatility.


In 58 matches he played he has contributed 13 goals and 10 assists.


OL will get a player, who has scored 2 goals from free kicks and 6 goals from the Penalty box. He is dangerous from corner kicks, as he ranks 89 percentile in corner kicks taken. He ranks 94 percentile in shots created through dead balls passes and 96 percentile in goal created through dead ball passes.


Faivre ranks high in carries to danger zone, with him ranking 97 percentile in carries into the final third of the opposition half. He is decent in passes in final third with 77 percentile.

The Frenchman is brilliant at taking the direct route and take his man on, in 1v1 situations. His quick feet and agile movements make him such an asset on the wing, which defenders struggle to deal with. He tends to keep the ball close to his feet, almost as if it is glued to his boots. Defenders can try but they often need to double or even triple up on him, just to get the ball off. Nevertheless, he can sometimes lose the ball by engaging too many defenders in a dribble, often beating the first and second, but hackled down by the third defender.Faive ranks #3 in dribbles completed and dribbles attempted with 88 percentile. He is behind Sofiane Boufal and Kylian Mbappe.



The dashboard below shows why Faivre is highly regarded by many and the creativity he brings to Les Pirates when compared to other wingers in the league this season. This analysis will cover the Frenchman’s performance with his club this season.

Lyon is delighted with the arrival of Romain Faivre, who will  strengthen the squad. They can challenge both in terms of Ligue 1 and the Europa League with the help of Faivre in their ranks.