Study finds drug therapy associated with 16% lower risk
Parkinsonism is a term used to describe a range of neurological diseases that produce movement issues such as tremors, sluggish movement, and stiffness, with Parkinson's disease being one of the most well-known. According to a new study, older persons who use statin medicines had a decreased risk of getting parkinsonism later in life than those who do not. The study was published in the online edition of Neurology®, the medical journal of the American Academy of Neurology, on March 23, 2022. Statins are medications that decrease cholesterol in the blood and protect against atherosclerosis, which is the formation of plaque in the arteries that can cause hardening, heart attack, and stroke.

The study looked at 2,841 patients who did not have parkinsonism at the start of the trial and had an average age of 76. Nine hundred and thirty-six persons, or 33%, were taking statins.

Researchers checked on participants once a year for an average of six years to see if they were taking statins and to look for evidence of parkinsonism.

People were diagnosed with parkinsonism if they had two or more of the following symptoms: tremor, stiffness, parkinsonian gait, which is characterised by small shuffling steps and a general slowness of movement, and bradykinesia, which is characterised by difficulty moving the body quickly on command.
1,432 participants, or 50%, acquired indications of parkinsonism by the conclusion of the research. Six years later, 418 out of 936 persons using statins, or 45 percent, developed parkinsonism, compared to 1,014 out of 1,905 people, or 53 percent, who had not been taking statins.

Researchers discovered that persons who had been taking statins had a 16 percent decreased chance of acquiring parkinsonism six years later compared to those who had not been taking statins after adjusting for age, sex, and vascular factors including smoking and diabetes that might increase risk of parkinsonism. Approximately 79 percent of patients on statin medication took moderate or high-intensity statins.