Electronic mail, or email, was introduced at MIT in 1965 and was widely discussed in the press during the 1970s. Tens of thousands of users were swapping messages daily by 1980 and it became commercially available.

In 1978, Shiva Ayyadurai however created a small-scale electronic mail system used within the University of Medicine and Dentistry of New Jersey, but this could not send messages outside the university and included no important features missing from earlier systems. 

The details of Ayyadurai’s program were never published, it was never commercialized, and it had no apparent influence on any further work in the field. 

He does not “hold the patent for email” or have a copyright on the word email, though in 1982 he did register a copyright claim covering the exact text of a program called "EMAIL." 

The U.S. Government has not recognized him as the inventor of email and he did not win the Westinghouse Science Talent Search for his program. 

Also, to “invent” something you have to devise some kind of new technology or capability that had not existed before, but that's not the case with shiva's claim to the invention of email. It has been widely known by the time Shiva claimed its invention.

Ayyadurai himself has contributed to this confusion by referring to his copyright form as if it was a milestone in email history.

 Ayyadurai has not even been able to show that he was the first to contract “electronic mail” to “email” or “e-mail” – his first documented use is in 1981 whereas the Oxford English Dictionary shows a newspaper usage in 1979.

Email infact has no single inventor. There are dozens, maybe hundreds, of people who contributed to significant incremental “firsts” in the development of email as we know it today. 

However, Ray Tomlinson ,US computer programmer came up with the idea of electronic messages that could be sent from one network to another in 1971.

His invention included the ground-breaking use of the "@" symbol in email addresses, which is part of the modern day email system, hence he's widely regarded as the inventor of the email.

Sources: https://www.sigcis.org/Ayyadurai 

https://www.theverge.com/2012/3/5/2847627/inventor-of-email-debunking-shiva-ayyadurai 

https://www.techdirt.com/articles/20190518/23370542236/laying-out-all-evidence-shiva-ayyadurai-did-not-invent-email.shtml 

https://gizmodo.com/the-guy-who-claims-he-invented-email-just-lost-his-bogu-1801008908