LeBron James doesn't know if or when he will play his final NBA season, but he definitely seems to know which teammate he wants.

In an interview with The Athletic's Jason Lloyd, the Los Angeles Lakers star stated outright that he plans to spend the last year of his NBA career playing alongside his eldest son, Bronny:

“My last year will be played with my son,” James said. “Wherever Bronny is at, that’s where I’ll be. I would do whatever it takes to play with my son for one year. It’s not about the money at that point.”

Under current NBA rules, the earliest the 17-year-old Bronny could enter the league is the 2024 NBA draft, which would mean the elder James will spend at least three more seasons in the league. There has, however, been plenty of discussion in the past around the NBA ending the one-and-done era, so Bronny entering next year's draft isn't entirely out of the realm of possibility.

The bigger question around the younger James reaching the NBA isn't eligibility, though. It's talent.

Bronny James is, by all accounts, an advanced talent at the high school value and should have his pick of colleges if he goes that route. Rivals has him as a four-star recruit from Duke, Kansas, Kentucky and North Carolina, but reaching the NBA is an entirely different animal, and pronouncing that the end of your legendary NBA career hinges on your son making the league is an extraordinary amount of pressure to put on a teenager.

Many more four-star recruits miss the NBA entirely than crack a team's rotation. Bronny James certainly has some good genes, but it remains to be seen if NBA teams will have much interest in a 6-foot-2, four-star point guard. James and his game obviously still have plenty of time to grow, so it's not out of the question, just keep in mind that Rivals currently has 130 recruits as five- and four-star players in the Class of 2023.

Four-stars not making the NBA isn't usually newsworthy, but LeBron has basically guaranteed it will be should Bronny come up short.