Do Gemstones Work—No They
Don’t for 90% of the People continues....

2. The second pathway to alter a karmic life map is Tantra. The word tantra 
basically means a mechanism or an amalgamation of spiritual procedures 
to bring the desired result. These include but are not limited to the use Mudras—systematic hand gestures, asanas—yogic postures etc. Efficacy of Tantra is intimately dependent on mantra to yield the desired results. Hence all limitations as listed in mantras apply in this case. You can imagine the result.

3. The third pathway for karmic life map alteration is Yantra. Yantra is an intricate geometrical diagram drawn while chanting of mantras and has been traditionally considered as the seat of the sacred deities. Energization of Yantras requires strong and consistent mantra sadhna, daily rituals to consecrate the Yantra. This process is required daily and sometime runs anywhere from 45 minutes to 2 hours. Limitations such as these render most of the Yantras quite ineffective.

4. Aushadha basically means medicine and is used only in cases of diseases. It has little use in other challenging karmic situations.

5. Yagya is basically a fire ritual wherein sacred herbs and other sacred material is offered to the fire which in turn acts as their carrier to the sacred deity. Yagya is again dependent on mantras and if you see the limitations of mantras you can guess how effective this remedy is going to be. 
An unhealthy trend viewed today due to lack of time, patience and devotion is the culture of seemingly short cut Yagyas. These Yagyas have no basis in the Shastras and have been basically customized to justify laziness and lack of time and resources. For example the sacred texts mention that Ganpathi Homa—the Yagya of Lord Ganesh should start in the wee hours of early morning and finish before the sun actually begins to rise on that particular day itself. What we see today is Ganpathi Homa being conducted randomly at any point of the day. The number of mantras is also varied according to time constraints. The result is little or no benefit.

To be continued......