In reality, even the die-hard critics of the BJP do not believe it can easily lose a crucial election under Modi when he has personally undertaken a high voltage campaign.

By Shekhar Iyer

New Delhi (India): The outcome of the elections in five states should answer two questions. Who will lead the challenge to unseat Prime Minister Narendra Modi in the 2024 Lok Sabha polls? Or will Modi remain unchallenged because the scope for an alternative to the BJP is still an elusive proposition.

Uttar Pradesh voters, in particular, will hold the key to both the questions --because if Yogi Adityanath’s government wins a second term, he will not only be the first chief minister of the state in 37 years to be returned to power for back-to-back terms but also ensure that the BJP remains the big national player for the parliamentary elections.

In fact, only four scenarios are possible after the ballots are counted on March 10.

Scenario 1: The BJP wins a two-third majority in the 403-member Uttar Pradesh assembly like it did in 2017. Modi gets a big thumbs up despite a slow economic recovery, farmers agitation over market reforms and post-Covid aftermath. Yogi is re-crowned CM and gets ready to play a larger role  in assisting Modi's plans for the BJP to work towards a third stint in the 2024 general elections. The BJP also takes Uttarakhand again, manages to form governments again in Goa and Manipur while Punjab settles between the Aam Aadmi Party and the Congress.

Scenario 2: The BJP loses between 50 to 70 seats in UP compared to the 2017 tally but returns to form the next government with absolute majority. Yogi will definitely return as CM but his larger-than-life role in the BJP may get diminished.

Scenario 3. The BJP just about manages to cross the half-way mark in UP, gets a simple majority for staking claim to form the next government. Yogi's importance will get diminished though his return as CM is ensured but it will be marked by the revival of internal rivalry in the party.

To be continued....