On 14 May 2022, T Raja Singh, a two-time memberof legislative assembly (MLA) of the Bharatiya Janata Party from Hyderabad’s Goshamahal constituency, addressed a public rally, speaking after and following the anti-Muslim cues of union home minister Amit Shah’s speech, which kicked off the campaign for Telangana’s 2023 state election. 


Shah called for Hyderabad to be “free” of the Nizams—former Muslim rulers whose reign ended 74 years ago in 1948—and reservations for minorities to be abolished. Amidst a sea of BJP flags and banners, Singh, 45, who shared the stage with Shah, said the “Owaisi brothers” (Asaduddin Owaisi and Akbaruddin Owaisi, leaders of the rival All India Majlis- e-Ittehadul Party) should be “thrown out” of the state and Telangana made a “Hindu state”.


“It’s BJP’s rule, 200%, next year in Telangana,” said Singh.  


“The coming times are the times of war. The Nizams will not rule us anymore," said Singh. "There is going to be Hindu raj. India should be a Hindu nation. We need to kick out the anti-Hindus in Telangana.”


Focussed on expanding in the south by winning Telangana, where the BJP has three members in a legislative assembly of 119 seats, India's ruling party has settled for a tried and tested strategy of dividing Hindus and Muslims along religious lines to consolidate the Hindu vote and win elections.  


In line with Hindu right-wing efforts to create communal tensions over temples and mosques in Uttar Pradesh, widely believed to be part of the strategy to win the 2024 national election, BJP leaders in Telangana are raking up the history of religious places. 


Among the rabble-rousers at the forefront of that campaign is Singh, who has almost 50 police cases registered against him since 2005, nearly half for giving anti-Muslim hate speeches and inciting communal tensions. There are 50 serious offences listed in his election affidavit, including attempt to murder, and he is named as a “rowdy sheeter” in the dossier of the Mangalhat police station in Hyderabad. 

Read more - https://article-14.com/post/mla-with-a-long-criminal-record-penchant-for-anti-muslim-hate-speeches-is-vital-to-bjp-s-telangana-push-62f0744084382