The defensive midfield role, or number six, is a key role in any side and this Arsenal team is no different. Last season, we saw a clear difference in Arteta’s sides performances with and without starting number six Thomas Partey. Without the Ghanaian, Arsenal struggled to sustain pressure and maintain their favoured 2-3-5 shape. He is seen as the only player in this Arsenal squad who can execute the “single pivot” role to an appropriate standard. This often forced Granit Xhaka into the first phase in order to create numerical superiority in buildup. This meant Arsenal had to surrender men further forward, making it more difficult to win duels and second balls and thus, more difficult to sustain pressure.

So, what does sustaining pressure actually mean? Sustaining pressure, while sounding confusing, at its core is a simple concept. It is essentially when a team can maintain constant pressure in the other teams third, allowing them to repeatedly attack the opposition goal while also limiting chances conceded at the other end. Commonly referred to as “boxing in”, the likes of Manchester City have set an example of this methodology, and is described by football analysts as the holy grail of attacking football.

So, back to Arsenal, why is Arsenals number five no longer as integral? In short, the answer is Oleksandr Zinchenko. Arguably the most technically gifted player in the squad, the Ukrainian is a true inverted fullback, meaning he has the tactical ability to move into midfield areas and support Arsenals 2nd phase. This gives Arsenal another central option in possession both in buildup as well as allowing them to be more compact off the ball in order to win second balls. Furthermore, this allows Granit Xhaka to move higher up the pitch into the left half space. The Switzerland captain is strong in the duel and reliable in possession, again helping the gunners control football matches in the oppositions third, therefore putting less defensive burden on Arsenals number six.

In short, the signing of Zinchenko was a huge step in Arteta’s long term 2-3-5 vision.