On Thursday, Jagdeep Dhankhar, a former governor of West Bengal and candidate for the National Democratic Alliance (NDA), will take the oath of office as India's new vice president. At 11:45 a.m. today, president Droupadi Murmu will administer his oath at Rashtrapati Bhavan.

Dhankhar easily defeated Margaret Alva of the Opposition on August 6 to win the vice presidential election. With 528 votes to Alva's 182, he won the election.

At 8.30 AM, I'll go to Raj Ghat to pay my respects to Pujya Bapu. Dhankhar tweeted that he would be swearing in for the day later.

On August 7, "Certification of the Election of Jagdeep Dhankhar as the Next Vice President of India" was signed by Chief Election Commissioner Rajiv Kumar and Election Commissioner Anup Chandra Pandey.

In the six vice presidential elections that have been held since 1997, Dhankhar's victory margin is the greatest with 74.36 percent of the vote. The Vice President also serves as the Rajya Sabha's official chairman.

The vice presidential election's returning officer reported that 725 of the 780 electors cast ballots, however 15 of them were later determined to be invalid. He claimed  92.94% of voters participated in the election and that 356 votes were required to win the election.

Up to 55 MPs chose not to elect to vote in the vice presidential election. Trinamool Congress, which has 36 MPs overall, including 23 in the Lok Sabha, had not voted. Two of its MPs had, however, already cast their votes.

Dhankhar was born on May 18, 1951, into an agrarian family in a village in Rajasthan's Jhunjhunu district. He graduated from Chittorgarh's Sainik School after completing his studies. After earning his physics degree from the University of Rajasthan, he pursued an LLB. He was a first-generation professional who rose to become one of the state's top lawyers.

In 1990, he also held the position of Minister of State for Parliamentary Affairs. Devi Lal, a former deputy prime minister, originally affected his political views.

The Rajya Sabha and the Lok Sabha members make up the electoral college that chooses the vice president of India, the second-highest constitutional position in the nation.