Patrick Vieira is one of two ex-Arsenal players currently managing in the Premier League. Three Between 1996 and 2005, he was an indispensable part of Arsene Wenger’s team, including 3 years as captain. He made 279 league appearances (406 all competitions) for Arsenal, scoring 29 (34 all competitions) goals. Vieira is regarded as one of the best midfielders of his time. At Arsenal, he established himself as a ‘dominating box-to-box midfielder’. He was in the core in what remains Arsenal’s most sustained period of dominance in the PL era. He remains one of a handful of players to win three PL titles and four FA Cups at Arsenal. Arsene Wenger once narrated that Vieira’s signing for Arsenal was almost prevented with the player poised to sign for Ajax Amsterdam. He was already in Holland waiting to sign when Wenger contacted his agents and convinced him to go to Arsenal instead. Wenger had not even officially taken charge of Arsenal at that point! He has since remarked that his whole story at Arsenal might have been very different had Vieira’s acquisition not come to be. Vieira also had a stellar career at the international level, including an active part in the World Cup 1998 and Euro 2000 triumphs. He was also part of the French team at subsequent World Cups in 2002 & 2006 and Euros in 2004 & 2008. 
Patrick Vieira as captain led Arsenal to their as yet unmatched ‘Invincibles’ campaign in 2003-04. In the 2005 FA Cup final against Manchester United, he scored the winning penalty in the shootout. Fittingly, this turned out to be his last kick of a ball for the club, delivering a trophy at the expense of their bitter rivals. Vieira’s leadership qualities are perhaps best reflected by the fact that in over 15 years since his departure a leader of comparable stature has not been found at Arsenal, despite several extremely talented players taking on the armband. Roy Keane, one of Viera’s most bitter on-field rivals once spoke of him as being in the same category as Zidane, Scholes, Gerrard and, Lampard ‘as one of the very best I’ve played against.’