The Snow Lion and the Dragon: Tibet-China Relations continues....

The ‘teacher-protector’ or ‘priest-patron’ relationship which figures so prominently in the foreign policy of Tibet also needs to be examined to understand Tibet-China relations up to 1911, when the Manchu Empire collapsed. The ‘Priest-Patron’ relationship is rooted in the ancient socio-political Indian tradition of the Brahmin-Kshatriya relationship. In this social philosophy, the spiritual guidance and some practical political wisdom was provided by the priestly class, the Brahmins, who headed the social order, which was itself protected physically by the ruling and warrior class, the Kshatriyas, who came below them in the social order, in spite of their providing the kings and noblemen. The Brahmins propounded the Dharma, the religious and social order, while the Kshatriyas protected the Dharma. Physical protection of the social order included both protection from foreign military invasion as well as internal disorder. When this system worked well, India was well-governed, as has happened in various periods of its history. 

This would include for example even the rule of the medieval Moghul emperor Akbar, an ethnic Turkoman born in India of parents from what is now Uzbekistan, who ruled as the temporal overlord, guided by his Navratna (‘nine jewels’) guiding council of wise men; a medieval application of the system even if neither the emperor nor all the wise men were Hindus by faith. 

A good part of the hiccups being experienced by both India and Pakistan in their attempts at good governance along with military security, even from each other, stems from their inability to adapt this system to a Western democratic model of the British Westminster variety. In Pakistan a well-meaning and well organised ‘Kshatriya’ class, the Pakistan Army, has avowedly taken upon itself the protection of the Dharma, which in this case happens to be Islam. 

But in spite of ruling for over half the state’s existence, it has been unable to nurture the creation of a wise ‘Brahmin’ class composed of the intellectual professions, the academia, the judiciary, the press, and the religious ulema, which could have guided state policy.

To be continued......