President Cyril Ramaphosa recently appointed a senior South African politician, Ayanda Dlodlo, to serve a two-year term as a member of the World Bank’s 25-person Board of executive directors. She will represent a constituency consisting of Angola, Nigeria and South Africa.

Dlodlo has previously held two cabinet positions – as minister of public service and administration and state security.

The appointment of such a senior politician to executive director position offers South Africa an opportunity to influence the World Bank’s relations with Africa.

The 25 executive directors of the bank fulfil a dual function. Firstly, they operate as the governing board of the World Bank. Their second function is to represent the interests of their countries at the bank.

Given these two remits we propose three issues that Dlodlo should prioritise in her term as executive director.

The role
Executive directors must approve all World Bank loans and guarantees, country assistance strategies, the administrative budget of the Bank, and the Bank’s key operational policies and procedures. They also monitor the management and staff of the Bank compliance with these policies.

In all these activities, the board has a fiduciary responsibility to act in the best interests of the World Bank.

Their second function is to represent the interests of the countries in their constituency. This inevitably means that the Board is a more political board than the board of most banks.

In an effort to mitigate its politicisation, the board has developed the custom of operating largely by consensus. Formal votes by the board are unusual. This is significant for two reasons.

First, World Bank member states have weighted votes, with their votes being weighted according to a formula based on their economic size and role in the global economy. Each executive director has a vote equal to the sum of the votes of the states in their constituency. Thus, a minority of powerful executive directors, with large weighted votes, can outvote the majority of the board.

Read more here: https://theconversation.com/three-priorities-africas-newbie-on-the-world-bank-board-should-focus-on-181521