The group stage campaign of the UEFA Champions League 2022-23 season will begin on September 06. In Group E, the big game that will take place will be between Dinamo Zagreb and Chelsea. 
AC Milan, Chelsea, Salzburg, and Zagreb are the 4 clubs that have been drawn in Group E of the UCL campaign this season. The game will take place at Stadion Maksimir and this will be the first European meeting between both these sides. 
Zagreb won’t be heading into this game with a very good Champions League record as they have managed to win just 5 of their 42 UEFA Champions League ties with 30 of them ending in Losses and 7 ending as a Draw.
Dinamo Zagreb vs Chelsea Match Details
Match: Dinamo Zagreb vs Chelsea
Date and Time: 06th September, 05:45 pm UK, 06:45 pm Local, 10:15 pm IST
Venue: Stadion Maksimir
Dinamo Zagreb vs Chelsea Probable Playing XI
Dinamo Zagreb: Dominik Livaković, Stefan Ristovski, Rasmus Lauritsen, Sadegh Moharrami, Dino Perić, Robert Ljubicic, Arijan Ademi, Luka Ivanušec, Martin Baturina, Mislav Oršić, Josip Drmić
Chelsea: Edouard Mendy, Kalidou Koulibaly, Thiago Silva, Wesley Fofana, Marc Cucurella, Ben Chilwell, Reece James, Mateo Kovacic, Mason Mount, Hakim Ziyech, Kai Havertz 
Dinamo Zagreb vs Chelsea Probable Winners
Although Dinamo hasn’t had a great Champions League record coming into this game, their home advantage so far will surely boost them up. Having scored 20 goals in their last 5 home games.
Chelsea have managed to come back to winning ways in the Premier League and beat West Ham recently. This game can certainly be a closely-fought contest. 
Prediction: Dinamo Zagreb 0-1 Chelsea
Dinamo Zagreb vs Chelsea Live Stream
Dinamo Zagreb vs Chelsea will be live-streamed on SonyLIV. Indian fans can also stream the match live on Jio TV. In the UK, The match will be televised on BT Sport 4. BT Sport subscribers will be able to watch the match online via the BT Sport website or app. In Croatia, HRT will broadcast the games while Arena Sport will live stream. 