While Boris Johnson defends his divisive ‘conversion’ therapy ban that targets transgender people by excluding them from being protected, here is what leading medical organizations have to say in response:

Dr Latifa Patel, acting chair of the British Medical Association’s representative body, said in a statement: “‘Conversion therapy’ has been debunked countless times as an unethical and damaging practice that preys on victims of homophobia, transphobia, discrimination, and bullying. For those subjected to it, it can also increase the risk of long-lasting psychological harm, substance abuse, or even suicide. Many acts of conversion therapy amount to torture, inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment - a violation of international and UK law. That the Government can recognise a set of practices, methods and activities as ‘abhorrent’, damaging and cruel for one group but suggest that those same practices, methods and activities can be acceptably perpetrated on another group is profoundly troubling.”

The UK Council for Psychotherapy: “We are disappointed that the government has not engaged more meaningfully with us in reaching its current apparent position. It is essential that any conversion therapy ban protects all those at risk – and, internationally, there are numerous examples of legislation that manages this.”

Dr Adrian James, President of the Royal College of Psychiatrists, said in a statement: “The reported decision to only ban conversion therapy for gay and bisexual people but not those who are transgender is discriminatory and very disappointing. Conversion therapy causes severe physical and psychological suffering, violates the human rights of all LGBTQ+ people, and has been called a form of torture.. We urge Government to reconsider its plans to ban so called conversion therapy only for cisgender people, and we fully support calls for the ban to cover transgender people.”

A growing list of 14 countries including France, Canada, Brazil, Norway and Samoa, have bans on the harmful practice of ‘conversion’ therapy.