USBRL Project
Amidst an appealing land locked valley where connectivity conjugates to catastrophe, Udhampur-Srinagar-Baramulla Railway line project serves a relief.
Jammu & Kashmir covers almost 1200 km long border with Pakistan and the region's insurgency along with Chinese presence in the area of Aksai chin makes Ladakh along with J&K more vulnerable. Establishing a railway network in this region was of paramount importance in many aspects. 
The first to propound the Kashmir railway line project was Maharaja Pratap singh in 1898. Later in 1905, he sanctioned this project unfortunately it was not implemented. After independence in 1983, the then PM Indira Gandhi laid the foundation of 54 km Jammu-Udhampur section with the ambition to extend the railway line from Udhampur to Srinagar but the project went on the blink. 
The foundation stone of the project was later laid down in 1987 by the then PM HD Deve Gowda in Udhampur. 
To provide seamless and hassle free connectivity through the lower Himalayan region, USBRL project was declared a 'national project' in 2002 which was expected to be completed on 15th August 2007 but fortunately got delayed. 
The original estimated cost was Rs. 27,949 crore but according to Northern Railways, Rs. 26,964 crore has been spent on this till February 2022 with the completion of only 81% of work. Therefore the project is expected to cost more than Rs 37,000 crore. 
The geology of this project is another major challenge which includes Shear zone, Highly jointed rock mass, Rock problems of squeezing and High ingress of water. 
The three major agencies working on this project includes Northern Railway, Konkan railway corporation limited, Indian railway construction limited, there are other major organisations also involved. 
The project aims to connect Kashmir valley with mainland India, establish all weather connectivity, boosting industrialization and other economic activities in the valley. 
However, the USBRL project will reduce the time for the movement and transfer of defence forces and equipment. 