By Tanzila Shaikh

Many celebrities like Anushka Sharma, Virat Kohli, Deepika Padukone, Shraddha Kapoor, Alia Bhatt, and Katrina Kaif have invested in start-ups, thereby starting a new trend. In 2018, Priyanka Chopra arguably became the first Indian celebrity to start the wave of investing in start-ups by putting her money in the dating app ‘Bumble’.

Earlier, the trend was such that celebrities used to invest in real estate, or in the hospitality sector like opening restaurants, cafes, bars, and then there was the Indian Premier League (IPL) wherein many celebrities invested in IPL teams. But then the change slowly started taking place and today the scenario is completely changed.

Actor Deepika Padukone has invested in three start-ups, namely Front Row, Epigamia, and Nua. Similarly, Shilpa Shetty has invested in Mama Earth, Alia Bhatt has bet on fashion start-up Style Cracker, while Shraddha Kapoor has invested in make-up brand MyGlamm. Celebrity couple Anushka Sharma and Virat Kohli have invested in alternative meat start-up ﻿Blue Tribe Foods﻿. The list goes on and on, as everyone in the entertainment industry either looks keen, or has already invested in start-ups.

BestMediaInfo.com spoke to industry experts to understand this emerging trend in the entertainment industry and how it works in the favour of celebrities.

Karthik Nagarajan, Chief Content Officer, Wavemaker India, said, “Celebrity-driven cultural entrepreneurship has been a global trend for a while. Sports champs like Floyd Mayweather and Hollywood celebrities like George Clooney, Ashton Kutcher, Di Caprio and Jessica Alba have been doing this successfully for many years now. This is happening for a variety of reasons: It is a way of cultural expression for them, of the things they believe in. They also realise that careers in Showbiz can be short and this gives them a longer play. More importantly, this is the golden age of private equity and it makes as much financial sense as it does culturally. The show ‘Planet of the Apps’, which is Shark Tank meets Hollywood, is a great expression of what is happening and also why it is a long-term trend and not just a flash in the pan.”

Read the full story here:- https://bestmediainfo.com/2022/05/startups-the-new-celebrity-junction