by Ajai Narendran

The commencement of this year’s Chardham Yatra saw the loss of over 45 lives. Though most deaths were attributed to high blood pressure, heart attack, mountain sickness and post covid complications, one cannot sidestep the question of how prepared the Uttarakhand government and the authorities were to provide care and safety to the pilgrims.

https://youtu.be/iuLopTcAHCw

Dr. Sandeep Gore, Director, Emergency Medicine at Fortis, Mumbai speaks to The Probe’s Ajai Narendran

The Chardham Yatra was thrown open to pilgrims from May 3 with the opening of the Gangotri and Yamunotri portals. This was followed by the opening of the Kedarnath Shrine on May 6. The Badrinath temple was subsequently opened on May 8. Most pilgrims lost their lives while travelling to and from the four shrines of Kedarnath, Badrinath, Gangotri and Yamunotri.

The Uttarakhand Director-General of Health, Dr Shailaja Bhatt, maintained that most pilgrims died due to high blood pressure, heart attacks and mountain sickness. According to her, the government has put in place medical checkpoints for health checks of the pilgrims, but many believe that the facilities currently provided by the state government are not adequate enough to handle the growing influx of travellers.

Speaking to The Probe, Karan Mahara, the Congress President of Uttarakhand, said that the government had ignored the warning signals. Despite several pleas for setting up better medical and infrastructural facilities ahead of the yatra, none of it was made, alleges Mahara.

“People are suffering from post Covid complications all over the country. I already told the government that there must be oxygen checkpoints. But they didn’t do that. I told them that the area is accident-prone and the roads must be fixed. They didn’t fix that as well. Eight people died here in the first week itself because of accidents. No, medical facilities were provided when 32 people had initially died. There were no ambulances. There were no water facilities either. The first day when we reached Kedarnath, there was no power the whole day. For poor people, they did not arrange rain baseras. 

Read the full story here:- https://theprobe.in/chardham-yatra-pilgrim-deaths-could-have-been-averted/