Norwich City's wretched Premier League season came to an end on Sunday as they were
humiliated 5-0 by Tottenham Hotspur at Carrow Road.

The result ended another disappointing season in the Premier League, which saw the Canaries
relegated to the Championship.

SEASON OVERVIEW

Norwich City returned to the top level for the 2021-22 season after winning their second
Championship title in three years, hoping to escape relegation to the second division.

Aston Villa manager Daniel Farke's summer of squad building ended when Emiliano Buendia,
who had lit up the Championship again with 15 goals and 16 assists in 39 appearances during
the title-winning season, was called upon by Aston Villa.

As a result, Pukki appeared to be shouldering a large portion of the goal-scoring burden once
again, though Milot Rashica appeared to be an intriguing addition to fill the void left by Buendia.

Farke dispersed the revenues of the Buendia sale among other purchases, bringing in Billy
Gilmour, Ben Gibson, Brandon Williams, Mathias Normann, Ozan Kabak, and Josh Sargent,
among others.

However, a lack of top-flight experience, as well as leaders and aggression, were once again in
short supply, as they had been in recent dismal Premier League campaigns.

Norwich's hopes of taking their promotion momentum into the 2021-22 season were dashed by
a punishing fixture list that included Liverpool, Manchester City, Leicester City, and Arsenal in
their first four games.

The Canaries lost all four games, and subsequently lost four of their next six, with goalless
draws against Burnley and Brighton & Hove Albion providing the sole respite.

Norwich gained their first three points of the season with a 2-1 win against newly promoted
Brentford, but the writing was on the wall and Farke was dismissed from his duties despite the
morale-boosting victory.

Dean Smith was brought in to save the Canaries after being sacked by Aston Villa, with one eye
on the 51-year-old's credentials in the Championship if he failed to do so.

Norwich finally looked like a team capable of fighting with the big guns in the top flight after
beating Southampton 2-1 in their first game.