When the Taliban resurged and staged a comeback in Afghanistan six months ago, many people in neighbouring Pakistan, including government officials and politicians, celebrated the event. Pakistan’s government hoped that a friendly regime would help rein in their counterparts in Pakistan.

 But within months Pakistanis felt the heat as there had been a spike in terrorist attacks in the country. Pakistan’s bureaucrats, including the country’s ambassador to Afghanistan, now say many of these attacks were planned on Pakistani soil. Taliban’s arrival has helped many notorious terror groups, such as Daesh (or Islamic State) and Al Qaeda have resurfaced and have been working with the Pakistani terror group Tehreek-e-Taliban Pakistan (TTP) to launch these recent attacks.

TTP has been a close ally of Afghan Talibans for decades and were responsible for killing thousands of people in Pakistan in successive terror attacks between 2007 and 2015. According to study by Islamabad-based Pakistan Institute for Peace Studies (PIPS) show that there were 207 terrorists attacks in 2021, a 42 per cent spike compared to 2020. Their statistics show 87 of these attacks were by TTP; the terror group claims they had made 282 attacks in 2021 and killed over 500 law enforcement staff. They boasted of 42 attacks in January and claimed they have now shifted their focus on law enforcers and security personnel, from ordinary citizens—their targets in their earlier avatar. 

But, contrary to their claims many of the attacks were on polio vaccinators working in the remote western provinces of Pakistan, bordering Afghanistan. The TTP operatives also have started making threat calls and forcing affluent Pakistani traders to pay extortion money. They have also begun issuing threats to senior officials who fear attacks during public events.

Pakistan has been trying to talk to the Taliban government to control the groups. But many experts believe the new regime may not have the power or will rein in the terror groups, as they are reeling under acute economic crisis in Afghanistan.

READ MORE:

 https://foreignpolicy.com/2022/02/22/pakistan-taliban-terrorism-militant-groups

https://www.nytimes.com/2022/02/22/world/asia/pakistan-afghanistan-taliban.html

https://thediplomat.com/2022/01/afghanistan-and-pakistans-troubles-wont-end-with-the-taliban-victory/