By Jayanta Bhattacharya

Cattle smuggling along the Bangladesh border was a cash cow that no one wanted to take by its horns. Instead, they all feared waving the red flag considering the political and criminal muscle smuggling kingpins flexed. After all, the illegal trade’s worth was estimated at hundreds of crores of rupees. And ongoing investigations have pointed to the involvement of the high and mighty.

The recent arrest of Anubrata Mondal, the Birbhum district president of West Bengal’s ruling Trinamool Congress (TMC), further highlights political involvement in this illicit trade. As per the CBI, Mondal, along with corrupt BSF and customs officials, was allegedly running a cattle smuggling racket. The TMC strongman, often called the ‘uncrowned king of Birbhum’, had been evading CBI summons for some time. He even sought medical attention at SSKM Hospital. However, the doctors advised Mondal to continue medication, and that hospitalisation was not necessary. The Probe had earlier reported how the SSKM hospital was embroiled in a controversy over ‘medical asylum’.

Samir Kumar Mitra, former DIG, BSF, says, “Illegal trade at the Bangladesh border has been going on for many years. Despite facing several odds, the BSF’s grit and determination have helped contain these crimes to a great extent”. Mitra had a long and distinguished career at both the Eastern and Western borders. He was an executive committee member to design and initiate the first fencing work to check cattle smuggling on the Assam border about 25 years ago.

Modus Operandi

For about two and a half years, the BSF – hit by bribery allegations – made a determined effort to arrest people involved in cattle smuggling at the Eastern border. The animals are transported from various parts of the country like Haryana, Punjab, Uttar Pradesh, Rajasthan, Bihar, Jharkhand and other states. The smugglers travel almost 1,500 to 2,000 km – mainly on the sly and with fake documents – usually on trucks and pickup vans. However, these are seldom intercepted or seized en route, claim authorities at the border.

Read the full story:- https://theprobe.in/cattle-smuggling-at-india-bangladesh-border-age-old-problem-few-solutions-in-sight/