The original 2008 Dead Space even today is a masterpiece which despite some clunky mechanics, gameplay and graphics holds up impressively well by today’s standards. 
Dead Space 2 improved on this already super impressive piece of horror game delivering one of the all time best sequels while Dead Space 3 ruined it with a drastic change in gameplay and mechanics.
After that, with the passage of time many had wondered what a Dead Space remake would be like, though few believed it possible that a remake would ever be able to topple the original one, seems those people were wrong. Now no matter how well the original holds up, it’s horribly bland compared to what EA Motive has shown in their recent gameplay footage.
From the initial gameplay preview by EA, the new Dead Space remake is more than just a remake, it is a love letter to the original one written with all the love and respect of an avid and passionate fan while also written with the purpose to reinvent the game by today’s standards. 
EA celebrated Dead Space's 14th anniversary with an extended sequence from the remake's third chapter, in which protagonist Isaac Clarke must explore the Necromorph infested planet-cracking ship USG Ishimura in order to reach the ship's engineering deck and repair its engines.
The remake showed off various key improvements including updated visual fidelity, the interconnected ship, room layouts, redesigned environments, aesthetics, graphic enhancements, lighting, sound design, atmosphere etc. Well this is indeed how you do a perfect remake, both faithful to the original and yet something totally fresh and new
According to the Playstation site, the new gameplay features include: A fully voiced Isaac and that too by Gunner Wright, Interconnected immersion, Zero Gravity freedom, Intense new moments, Circuit breakers, Big moments feel bigger, Incentivized exploration, Intensity director and Expanded weapon upgrade paths.
Furthermore, several familiar details will be reworked and enhanced to better fit the narrative and tone of the new game making it a familiar yet totally new experience. Now all we need is a Dead Space 2 remaster and Dead Space 3 reboot.