Over the past few years, the question of gun ownership has been a high priority topic for many.  Who should be permitted to carry firearms? Where should they be permitted to carry firearms? What kinds of firearms should they be permitted to carry? When should they be permitted to use their firearm? These are all questions to which almost everybody might have a unique response.
 
There is one viewpoint on weapons that is widely supported and has been implemented in many countries, and that is a complete ban. To defend their support for gun control, proponents of this and opponents of the Second Amendment employ a rather odd approach.

First, you will often hear the argument that there is no need for firearms since police are authorized to carry them and are trained to use them. Well, besides the fact that the people who say this are also the ones who don't trust the police and therefore would be better off being armed themselves, forget that police are often not just around the corner, and waiting for them is often impractical, especially in remote areas of the United States where there are very few officers who have to cover extremely large areas.

The second incompatible position is that firearms were not as powerful when the Second Amendment was adopted as they are now. This argument cannot be reconciled on two levels. To begin with, liberals do not embrace originalism, thus it is unusual that they would use an originalist argument (interpret the Constitution as what it meant when it was written), which is also an incorrect application, to defend stringent gun regulations. The second reason is that there are constitutional amendments, such as a prohibition on warrantless searches, that apply to modern technologies that did not exist in the 1700s and 1800s. I highly doubt that these same people would claim that the police and other government agencies should have the absolute right to listen in on all of our phone conversations since mobile phones did not exist back then.