Russia’s Ukraine invasion doesn’t show any sign of ending as the invaders become more desperate after facing an unexpected resistance by Ukraine’s army and its determined civilians. Ukrainians, equipped with sophisticated weapons supplied by the US and its NATO allies, have been destroying Russian tanks and have successfully halted their advances in many areas. Meanwhile, Russia has been deploying more and more lethal weapons killing thousands of innocent civilians, including sick children in hospitals.

Let’s have a look at the key weapons of defence by Ukrainians as well as Russians’ destructive devices in the warfront. One of the key weapons of resistance by Ukrainians is Javelin, the anti-tank missile that can be carried on the shoulder of a lone soldier and fired with ease, after a short training. Tried and tested in the warfronts at Afghanistan, Iraq, Libya and Syria, by US forces, Ukrainians too have successfully used them to make columns of Russian tanks explode. A similar, fire-and-forget Next Generation Light Anti-tank Weapon (NLAW), supplied by the UK, also bolstered Ukraine’s military. Stinger missiles, developed by the US Army, are also shoulder-fired and help Ukrainians deal with low-flying Russian airplanes and combat helicopters. Consignment of Kamikaze, or Switchblade drones, packed with explosives have destroyed Russian tanks and troops.  

Compared to these desperate Russia have been using highly destructive hypersonic missiles to target Ukraine’s ammunition and oil storage facilities. They’ve used lethal thermobaric bombs that asphyxiates civilians, by sucking out oxygen from the victim’s lungs, and even vaporise humans. The Russians also fired cluster munitions that opened mid-air and scattered thousands of explosive submunitions, killing hundreds in crowded urban areas, including hospitals and residential areas. These munitions are deemed illegal according to international law and targeting civilians with all these weapons clearly violates the Geneva Conventions.  

And, now that the Russian aggression has hit a stalemate their military seems poised to launch even more lethal weapons, such as nuclear, chemical and biological weapons, to subdue Ukrainians and capture the key cities.     

READ MORE: 

https://www.nytimes.com/explain/2022/03/25/us/weapons-ukraine-war

https://www.washingtonpost.com/world/2022/03/23/russia-ukraine-weapons-missiles-nukes-drones/

https://graphics.reuters.com/UKRAINE-CRISIS/WEAPONS/lbvgnzdnlpq/