Manchester United’s Under-23s coach Neil Wood is set to depart the club to become first-team manager of League Two side Salford City.

Wood, 39, is expected to replace Gary Bowyer, who lost his job after 14 months after Salford finished tenth this season, seven points away from the play-offs.

Wood worked closely with Salford co-owner Nicky Butt at United and is highly regarded for his work in developing young players. He presented United’s Under-23 'Player of the Year' award on the Old Trafford pitch last week to Alvaro Fernandez before United’s FA Youth Cup triumph.

A former player himself from Stretford in Manchester, injury hampered a career which started at Manchester United and saw him play first-team football on loan at Burnley, Coventry City, Oldham and in Sarajevo, Bosnia. At each step, he watched the work of his managers closely. Wood also played for England schoolboys and was renowned as a hard-working, creative midfielder.

With his professional career curtailed, Wood began coaching, initially as an unpaid observer with Aston Villa’s Under-12s. He went on to coach several age groups at Villa and found it a valuable experience. He later returned home to live in Manchester and work at the club he’d supported all his life.

Wood started with United’s Under-15s but would watch the under-18s and under-23s train, taking in as much information as he could. He’d spend five nights per week watching games and his work was valued at United, where he moved up to coach the under-18s and then the under-23s.

 “I was ready for it,” he told publication United We Stand.

“I’d not cheated at any point, done the work, not fudged my badges. I’d done a long apprenticeship and been surrounded by great people and good coaches.

“Even at a school age you should be able to spot a player at United,” he said. “They move smoothly, they’re creative with good vision and a range of passing. They should have a bit of inner steel, that determination not to get beat. That means not losing the game or a one on one.

https://t.co/qgGs2rV4kQ