By Kalim Ahmed

Prime Minister Narendra Modi recently visited Germany from June 26 to June 28 for the 48th G7 summit. On his second day of the visit i.e., on June 27, PM Modi interacted with the Indian diaspora in Munich where he listed numerous “achievements” of the Indian government.

In the hour-long community programme, PM Modi took the stage at around 21 minutes and delivered a 33-minute-long speech, where he talked about India’s growth story and highlighted the various “achievements” of his government, such as India being “open-defecation free (ODF)” and that “every village” in the country is electrified.

( Link https://youtu.be/0azNpHROXFk)

However, amidst the interaction where the PM lauded the Indian community in Munich for promoting India’s “success story” and called them India’s “ambassadors”, lied half-truths, exaggerated assertions and falsehoods.

Claim 1: Every village in India is Open Defecation Free (ODF)
At 27:18 minutes in his speech, the PM said, “Today, every village in India is open defecation free.” However, the ground reality is at odds with PM Modi’s assertion.

Under the Swachh Bharat Mission, all villages, gram panchayats, districts, states and union territories in India declared themselves “open-defecation free” (ODF) by October 2, 2019. This is mentioned on the Swachh Bharat Mission website and was also reported by various media outlets.

How does the government define ODF?

The government under Swachh Bharat Mission (Gramin) terms ODF as “the termination of faecal-oral transmission”, defined by:

1) no visible faeces found in the environment/village; and

2) every household as well as public/community institution using safe technology options for the disposal of faeces

To understand whether India has actually become open defecation free as suggested by the PM, we looked at two data sources – the fifth National Family Health Survey (2019 – 2021), and the third round of the National Annual Rural Sanitation Survey (NARSS).

Read the full story here:- https://www.altnews.in/fact-checking-prime-minister-modis-address-to-indian-diaspora-in-munich-germany/?utm_source=website&utm_medium=social-media&utm_campaign=newpost