Manchester City are already two points ahead of their Premier League title rivals, Liverpool,
after the first gameweek. The team will look to carry momentum when they face a newly
promoted outfit, AFC Bournemoth. Both teams face each other at Etihad Stadium on Saturday.

Manchester City faced West Ham United in the first game of the campaign and came out
victorious with a clean sheet. Erling Haaland scored both goals for Manchester City against the
Hammers including a penalty as well. The midfield and defense was smooth like the past
despite the absence of the starters.

On the other hand, AFC Bournemouth looked like a transformed side and shocked Aston Villa.
AFC Bournemouth scored two against Steve Gerrard’s side. Jefferson Lerma and Moore scored
goals for AFC Bournemouth.

Manchester City vs AFC Bournemouth Match Details
Match: Manchester City vs AFC Bournemouth
Date and Time: 13th August, 7:30 PM IST
Venue: Etihad Stadium

Manchester City vs AFC Bournemouth Probable Playing XI
Manchester City: Moraes Ederson; Kyle Walker, Ruben Dias, Nathan Ake, Joao Cancelo; Rodri,
Bernardo Silva; Julian Alvarez, Kevin De Bruyne, Phil Foden; Erling Haaland

AFC Bournemouth: Mark Travers; Adam Smith, Chris Mepham, Lloyd Kelly, Jordan Zemura;
Ryan Christie, Steve Cook, Jefferson Lerma, Jaidon Anthony; Philip Billing; Dominic Solanke

Manchester City vs AFC Bournemouth Probable Winners
Manchester City have started their title defense in style and AFC Bournemouth can be their
second scalp of the English Premier League 2022/23. However, AFC Bournemouth shocked
Aston Villa and can prove hot to handle for Manchester City as well. We expect a close game
with Manchester City winning all three points.

Predictions: Manchester City 2-1 AFC Bournemouth

Manchester City vs AFC Bournemouth Live Stream

The Manchester City vs AFC Bournemouth game is available on the Disney+Hotstar application
and Star Sports Network. Sky Sports Network will telecast the game for the residents in the UK.

Image Credit : afcbournemouth