Record-Breaking’ Achievement! Turkey Builds A ‘Wonder Bridge’ That Connects Europe To Asia In Mere 6 Minutes

President Recep Tayyip Erdogan inaugurated the 1915 Canakkale Bridge built across Turkey’s Dardanelles Strait that connects the European and Asian shores of the key waterway, according to reports.

Until now, vehicles traveling between Anatolia and the Gallipoli peninsula had to cross the Dardanelles in a one-hour ferry journey, which including waiting time amounted to as much as five hours. The journey will now take around six minutes.

These works will continue to provide profit for the state for many years,” Erdogan said at the opening ceremony. “These projects have a large share in putting our country ahead in investment, workforce and exports.”

Called the world’s longest suspension bridge, it is one of the major infrastructure projects that have been prioritized by Erdogan since his AK Party first came to power in 2002, including a new airport in Istanbul, rail and road tunnels beneath the Bosphorus Strait, and a bridge over it.

The 4,608-meter bridge was built by the South Korean contractors SK Ecoplant and DL E&C, in conjunction with Turkish contractors Yapi Merkezi and Limak. At its peak, some 200 South Korean staff, including those from subcontractors, worked on the bridge at Canakkale.

It is said to have the longest main span — the distance between the two towers — of any suspension bridge in the world. Reports suggest that it is the sixth tallest bridge in the world, surpassing the Sutong Bridge in China and the Stonecutters Bridge in Hong Kong. 

The bridge is named after the Battle of Çanakkale during World War I. It was one of Turkey’s most important victories, as the Ottoman Empire successfully fended off an attempt by the allied forces of Great Britain and France to take control of the Turkish Straits. The bridge has been painted in red and white to represent the Turkish flag.
According to Adil Karaismailoglu, Minister of Transport and Infrastructure, the number 1915 in the name of the bridge and the height of the bridge at 318 meters symbolize the Canakkale Naval Victory on March 18, 1915.