we can see his pass points and heat map. He has made forward passes, as well as most of his passes were in the left side considering he was playing as a left back during that game. He had a pass success of 89%.

we can see his passes, where he sprayed them. His maximum passes were in the middle or in defense. However he had 3 dangerous passes into the danger zone.
He had 1 tackles down the left side and he made clearances from the danger zones.

The Inter ace continued to impress and had Felipe Anderson in his pocket all night. He neutralized the Lazio attack down the left and contributed to the Inter offense.

He is a good dribbler as he made 2 dribbles and he ranks 91 percentile in dribbling past the opponents leg. 

He ranks high in defense splitting passes with 91 percentile. 

Bastoni is a good ball carrier. He carries the ball into the danger zone with him ranking 95 percentile in carries to the final third and 99 percentile into the penalty area.
From the below dashboard we can see that he has all the attributes of a modern defender. He ranks high in passes, defensive duties. According to The Telegraph, Tottenham Hotspur are keen on strengthening their defensive options in the summer window and have identified Alessandro Bastoni as a potential target.

The Italian international has been in impressive form in the current campaign again and seems to be attracting admirers across Europe, with Tottenham emerging as a suitor.

 Spurs have  identified Bastoni as a potential option for the summer window. The 22-year-old is a player that Conte knows very well, having coached him for two years at Inter Milan. The defender also has an intimate knowledge of the Italian tactician’s system and philosophies, which would make him an ideal fit at the Tottenham Hotspur Stadium.

Bastoni is contracted with Inter Milan until the summer of 2024. It will likely take a mega-money offer from Tottenham Hotspur to secure the Italian’s signing in the upcoming transfer window.

Link for the article:

https://link.medium.com/iiUd4jSqsnb