It's not an easy path for Ketanji Brown Jackson to be an Associate Justice of the Supreme Court of the United States. She has to undergo the confirmation process of the supreme court on Monday (which is basically a storming interview on opinions, work profiles and controversial cases)

In this critical time in the US, she could be rendered with the abortion laws, CRT and The Parental Rights in Education bill and on gun control. This itself will be a great challenge for Jackson, yet its good to know her opinion to build up the expectations. The case upon her uncle on drugs and suspicion of her indirect involvement, taking his side, would be a slight issue. 

Further, Missouri Republican Sen Josh Hawley launched a Twitter thread on Wednesday charging that Jackson's record reveals a "pattern" of letting child porn offenders off the hook for their awful crimes, both as a judge and as a policymaker.

According to CNN Already, Republicans are going through thousands of documents from her time at the commission looking for any indication that she was soft on crime. She responded to the accusation in 2021 when she went before the Congress: "When I have to sentence someone," she said, "I always explain to them 'This is why your behaviour was so harmful to society that Congress thought it had to be made a crime,' and I say, 'This is why I, as the judge, believe that you have to serve these consequences for your decision to engage in criminal behaviour." Still, this is going to be a tough spot for her. Moreover, Biden's direct nomination would promote some critical questions from the republicans.


However, I think it is an African American representation in the supreme court that is very necessary at the moment.  America's laws are going too conservative, especially towards the marginalised sections. An African American representation will hopefully stand unbiased but just in many issues. There is no doubt in need of an African-American woman representation in the Supreme Court. 