With the Toronto Police Service’s release of race-based data on strip searches as part of its Race and Identity-based Data Collection Strategy, we can clearly see who it chooses to subject to strip searches.

We now know that, in 2020 — even though Black people make up around 10 per cent of the city’s population — one in every three people who were strip-searched are Black. Nearly a third of all Indigenous people who were arrested were strip-searched.

Not only does strip searching evoke racial and sexual trauma, it’s also ineffective. It’s finally time to talk about ending this oppressive police practice.

Strip searches are traumatic
For the past 20 years, the courts and watchdog agencies have tried to regulate the way police conduct strip searches, with a mind to decrease the overall number of strip searches that they conduct.

In its landmark case on strip searches, R. v. Golden (2001), the Supreme Court of Canada defined strip searches as a distinct type of “personal search,” contrasted against general, pat-down or frisk and cavity searches. The court defined the strip search as involving “the removal or rearrangement of some or all of the clothing of a person so as to permit a visual inspection of a person’s private areas, namely genitals, buttocks, breasts … or undergarments.”

In the Golden case, the court also acknowledged the basic intrusiveness of strip searches. They “represent a significant invasion of privacy” and are often a “humiliating, degrading and traumatic experience.” Racialized people, as well as women, can experience being strip searched as akin to a sexual assault. Incarcerated women also view their strip searches as sexual assault.

The Supreme Court also recognized that Black and Indigenous people suffer disproportionate harm due to the racial trauma associated with being strip searched. In the absence of statistics, the majority of the Supreme Court justices in the Golden case inferred that Black and Indigenous people are “likely to represent a disproportionately.

Read more: https://theconversation.com/strip-searches-are-ineffective-unnecessary-and-target-racialized-canadians-185187