The first detailed report on the state of wastewater treatment in South Africa in nine years was released recently. It paints a dismal picture.

The Green Drop programme is a comprehensive auditing and reporting system designed to improve the overall performance of wastewater treatment plants. It includes an account of factors such as the capacity of municipal wastewater managers and process controllers to operate and maintain the treatment of sewage. The programme was recently reinstated with the publication of the first Green Drop public report since 2013 .

The report reveals an alarming and unacceptable state of wastewater treatment works in the country. In our view it represents a national crisis. What it shows is a worrying decline in the intervening years since the last report was published.

More than a third – 334 wastewater treatment works (39%) out a total of 955 systems – are classified as critical. In the 2013 report the number of critical systems was 248 (29%). In addition, only 22 municipal and one private wastewater treatment works achieved Green Drop status in the 2022 Report. The risk classification of municipal treatment works deteriorated from medium (65.4%) to high risk (70.1%) between 2013 and 2021.

What’s even more troubling is that some municipalities are increasingly incapable of addressing issues of wastewater management. The Municipal Strategic Self-Assessment report released in 2019 painted a concerning picture of the state of municipal water services provision, and their inability – particularly in smaller municipalities – to respond to failures. This is largely due to weak management, a lack of competent and experienced technical staff and very low levels of revenue collection.

The implications of poor quality effluent being discharged into the environment are dire. The more polluted the water sources are, the more expensive and difficult it is to treat the water for drinking (and other) purposes. Even more importantly though, are the potential public health impacts. A stark example of this was deadly sewage contamination in a small rural town called Bloemhof in 2014. At least 18 babies died and over 200 people were hospitalised.

Read more - https://theconversation.com/south-africas-ability-to-manage-wastewater-is-collapsing-whats-at-risk-181608