International Community in 
Afghanistan continues .....

After the fall of the Taleban regime in Afghanistan in November 2001, a 
United Nations conference was convened on 27 November 2001 at Bonn, Germany. The Conference agreed on 5 December 2001 to implement a UN-drafted framework for transition to democracy in war ravaged Afghanistan. 

The Bonn Agreement acknowledged the right of the people of Afghanistan to freely determine their own political future in accordance with the principles of Islam, democracy, pluralism and social justice.. 
Officially, the Agreement on Provisional Arrangements inAfghanistan Pending the Re-establishment of Permanent Government Institutions, the Bonn Agreement was a series of agreements intended to re-create the State of Afghanistan following the US intervention of Afghanistan in response to the 11 September 2001, terrorist attacks. 

The US-led war on terror in Afghanistan was an intrusion, which ended the more than twenty years long Afghan Civil War. Since no nationally agreed-upon government had existed in Afghanistan since 1979, it was 
felt necessary to have a transition period before a permanent government was established. A nationally-agreed-upon government would require at least one Loya Jirga (Grand Assembly) to be convened; however, in the absence of law and order in the wake of the rapid victory of American and Afghan Northern Alliance forces, immediate steps were felt to be required.

In accordance with the Bonn Agreement, the Interim Administration of Afghanistan, led by then Chairman Karzai, was inaugurated in Kabul on 22 December 2001 launching the “Bonn Process.” 

The Bonn Process requirements included convening an emergency Loya Jirga within six months after inauguration of the interim authority to elect the head of a transitional administration; drafting a new constitution and adopting it at a Constitutional Loya Jirga; and holding national elections under the constitution to elect a “fully representative government.”

To be continued...