One of the most prominent and well-liked black teas in the world, hailing from India. It stands out from other teas in terms of flavor, look, and even processing procedure.
Darjeeling tea is a black tea variety grown in India's Darjeeling area. Darjeeling currently has 87 tea gardens and 72 tea factories[1]. Black, oolong, green, and white teas are produced. However, black tea is frequently disguised beneath the appellation Darjeeling. Tea was initially cultivated in the area less than 200 years ago. Tea was first planted on the Makaibari Tea Estate, which is still producing Darjeeling tea today. The first tea factory in the area, which started in 1859, was located on the same land. [2] Interestingly, Chinese tea growers passed on their knowledge of how to grow and process tea[3]. Darjeeling's first teas were black, but many estates are now experimenting with new varieties. They all have the distinct Darjeeling personality.

Darjeeling tea, unlike teas from the Indian state of Assam, is manufactured from the Camellia sinensis var. sinensis plant. Assam tea is made from the Assamica tea plant, which has a stronger flavor, larger leaves, and typically higher caffeine. Camellia sinensis var. sinensis is used to make green, white, oolong, black, and yellow tea in China and Japan.

Darjeeling is distinguished from other black teas by the fact that it is not fully matured. This isn't true for all Darjeeling tea flushes, either. The color of the tea leaves indicates the degree of fermentation; the darker the color, the more fermented the tea leaves are. Darjeeling tea obtained in the first flush is usually lighter and has a lot of greenish leaves. Browner, darker tea leaves are more common in other flushes.

Spring, summer, and autumn are the three flushes of Darjeeling tea, with two in-between flushes. The first and second flushes are typically the best, but many people claim that one is better than the other. Both produce teas with a rich flavor that are virtually always better when served without milk or sugar. Other flushes, such as autumnal flush, are frequently used to mix into various blends.