A counselling session in progress

Psychology and Human Behaviour encompasses several disciplines including Biology, Economics, Law, Design and Engineering. From assisting the judiciary in making fair decisions to developing economic strategies for the welfare of different strata of the country, Psychology finds applications in every area that concerns human beings. Hence, Psychology graduates are sought after in every field

Why do people dream? What makes them happy or violent? How does a child grow up to become a narcissist? Are conflict and war part of human nature? These questions are not only intriguing but also play a decisive role in affecting the world order. Understanding human behaviour can provide answers to these and many other pivotal issues.

The field of Psychology and Human Behaviour gives a comprehensive overview of the scientific study of mental processes. Originating in the ancient civilizations of Egypt and Greece as a branch of Philosophy, Psychology emerged as a separate discipline in the late 1800s, when Wilhelm Wundt established the first Psychology laboratory in Leipzig, Germany.  

Since then, the effects of psychological studies have gained relevance and respect, with researchers making new discoveries and leading reforms that benefit all aspects of society.

Psychology and Human Behaviour encompasses several disciplines including Biology, Economics, Law, Design and Engineering. From assisting the judiciary in making fair decisions to developing economic strategies for the welfare of different strata of the country, Psychology finds applications in every area that concerns human beings.

For instance, various authors argue that psychological interventions at adolescence can prevent several people from committing crimes as adults. Psychological practices are helping in changing people’s behaviour towards environment. This has the potential to mitigate climate change catastrophe. Psychology is also employed by bureaucrats while formulating policies as well as by political leaders to shift the public opinion.