Partition is central to modern identity in the Indian subcontinent, as the Holocaust is to identity among Jews, branded painfully onto the regional consciousness by memories of almost unimaginable violence. 
The acclaimed Pakistani historian Ayesha Jalal has called Partition “the central historical event in twentieth century South Asia”, “a defining moment that is neither beginning nor end, partition continues to influence how the peoples and states of postcolonial South Asia envisage their past, present and future.”
The polarization of Hindus and Muslims occurred during just a couple of decades of the twentieth century, but by the middle of the century it was so complete that many on both sides believed that it was impossible for adherents of the two religions to live together peacefully.
Recently, a spate of new work has challenged seventy years of nationalist mythmaking.
The first Islamic conquests of India happened in the eleventh century, with the capture of Lahore, in 1021. Persianized Turks from what is now central Afghanistan seized Delhi from its Hindu rulers in 1192. By 1323, they had established a sultanate as far south as Madurai, toward the tip of the peninsula, and there were other sultanates all the way from Gujarat to Bengal.
Medieval Sanskrit inscriptions don’t identify the Central Asian invaders by the term 'Muslims'. Instead, the newcomers are identified by linguistic and ethnic affiliation, most typically as Turushka—Turks—which suggests that they were not seen primarily in terms of their religious identity. India soon embraced and transformed the new arrivals.
Within a few centuries, a hybrid Indo-Islamic civilization emerged, along with hybrid languages—notably Deccani and Urdu—which mixed the Sanskrit-derived vernaculars of India with Turkish, Persian, and Arabic words.
In the nineteenth century, India was still a place where traditions, languages, and cultures cut across religious groupings, and where people did not define themselves primarily through their religious faith. 
Many writers persuasively blame the British for the gradual erosion of these shared traditions. Other assessments, however, emphasize that Partition was largely a contingent development. As late as 1940, it might still have been avoided, if not for the clash of the titans of the then Indian National Congress.