1. The Breaker
It is a South Korean manhwa series written by Jeon Geuk-jin and illustrated by Park Jin-hwan under the pen name Kamaro. The Breaker was serialized in Daiwon C.I.'s Young Champ's magazine between June 2007 and July 2010.

2. Noblesse
The Noblesse "protects" the Nobles with his mighty strength. The Nobles were always at the summit of power so The Noblesse hardly needed to protect the Nobles from outside forces. The main duty of the Noblesse is to "protect" the meaning of the Nobles' existence.

3. The God Of High School
A 17-year-old martial artist from Seoul, South Korea who practices Full-Contact Karate. Daewi starts off the series as a hard-working young man who works to pay off his best friend's hospital bill due to terminal cancer. After being invited to the GOH tournament, he participates to cure his friend of the disease.

4. Tower Of God
Tower of God centers around a boy named Twenty-Fifth Bam. It is notable that in Korea 'Bam' can mean 'Night' or 'Chestnut'. He has spent most of his life trapped beneath a vast and mysterious Tower, with only his close friend, Rachel, to keep him company. When Rachel enters the Tower, Bam is devastated.

5. Hardcore Leveling Warrior
Known as Hardcore Leveling Warrior, Ethan is the #1 player of the world's biggest game, Lucid Adventure. But when a mysterious player kills Ethan and forces his character back to level 1, he will do anything to get back on top.

6. Sweet Home
Sweet Home follows Cha Hyun-soo (Song Kang) who moves to a rundown apartment complex after the death of his family. The socially withdrawn Hyun-soo wants nothing more than to commit suicide. But strange incidents start to happen in the building, when his neighbours start to turn into

7. Solo Leveling
In a world where hunters, humans who possess magical abilities, must battle deadly monsters to protect the human race from certain annihilation, a notoriously weak hunter named Sung Jinwoo finds himself in a seemingly endless struggle for survival.