The US Soccer Federation said Wednesday that the men's and women's national soccer teams
will earn equal salary under new contracts that include an unprecedented share of World Cup
prize money. "Under the landmark collective bargaining agreements (CBAs) agreed between
the federation and its senior national teams, US Soccer will distribute millions of dollars more to
its best players in the form of enhanced match pay and revenue sharing from ticket sales,
sponsorship, and TV partnerships.

In reconciling that discrepancy with the new agreements, US Soccer is living up to its "One
Nation, One Team" tagline, told US forward Midge Purce, who was a member of the bargaining
committee for the women's players' association.

Purce: "I think we set a new standard of value for women in the workforce". For non-World Cup
tournaments, such as those organized by regional governing body CONCACAF, US players
from "both teams will earn an equal amount of the total prize money paid when both teams
participate in the same competition."

"Regardless of how you look at it, the guys are giving up money to make this equitable," Cone
said, "and I think the men's team and the men's players' organization should be recognised."

On
Thursday night, the US Soccer Federation and the men's players' organization struck an
agreement. A member of the negotiating committee, Walker Zimmerman, said the men were
thrilled to "join alongside" the women's squad. On Thursday night, President Joe Biden tweeted
about the accord, saying, "This is a significant deal."

Megan Rapinoe, who has earned a reputation as a fearless campaigner for a variety of causes,
including fair pay and working conditions for herself and teammates, stated in February that the
settlement represented a turning point in "US Soccer."

Four Ladies’ World Cup championships and four Olympic gold medals have been won by the
US women. They are aiming for a historic third straight Women's World Cup title after winning in
Canada in 2015 and France in 2019.