More than 50 million people in the US experience allergy symptoms every year. This ranges from seasonal to food allergies, symptoms of an allergic reaction can be from a runny nose or tiny rashes to life threatening health complications. 

To stay alert about these symptoms and to manage them can often lead to stress inducing and isolating. 

Research shows that those suffering from allergies is prone to develop mental health conditions. 

The Hidden Impact of Allergies 

People suffer from various kinds of allergies that's related with certain plants, materials, drugs, animal hair and dander, environmental factors and many more. 

And suffering from allergy attack can be traumatic and staying on top of what could be potential allergens can be exhausting. Taish Malone, PhD, a licensed professional counselor with Mindpath Health says that the psychological toll of this could be great. 

"The physical body is in a symbiotic relationship with our mental states which include our thoughts and emotions," Malone says. 

"Many fail to realize that having allergies is a medical condition, which may be why most often underestimate the impact having allergies can have on the sufferer." 

Commonly experienced allergies are related with food items and these are potentially the most physically dangerous ones. 

Now research shows that anxiety, depression and even bullying are commonly linked with managing a food allergy, especially from a very young age. One in three children who have food allergies report being bullied because of their allergy. 

Allergies don't have a causal relationship, but they are definitely correlated. Malone observes that the higher the severity of an allergy the greater is its impact. 

"Suffering with disruptive symptoms that cause repetitive discomfort can lead to self-doubt in some, and even pose as a quality of life stressor and lead to stress response dysfunctions such as anxiety and depression," she says. 

A survey from Allergy UK have shown thay half of the adults who lives with allergies avoid social interactions. This is because they don't want to be judged by people. 

Sources - Very well mind