Emma Hayes collects the prestigious award for the third consecutive season after hat trick title wins. Her team went on a stunning unbeaten run from January to pip Arsenal and clinch the trophy, winning 18 of the 22 matches, losing just 2 of them. This was Chelsea's 6th title win in total and all of them coming during the managerial period of Emma. She was also awarded FIFA best Football coach award in 2021 and the Managers Association Manager of the season award too. 

Without any surprise, striker Sam Kerr won WSL Player of the season award. The Australian scored 20 goals in the season, helping the Matildas win the title, including 2 in the very important final game against Manchester United too. As of 2022, Kerr is the all time leading goal scorer for Australia, among both male and female, surpassing Tim Cahill's previous record of 50. She is the only female player to win golden boot in three different leagues and continents- the W-League (Australia) in 2017–18 and 2018–19, the NWSL (North America) in 2017, 2018, 2019 and the FAWSL (Europe) in 2020–21 and 2021–22. 

Both were selected as Player and Manager of the month of March too. 

Kante and Chelsea have won World Sport Organisation Annual Football reputation awards. 

World Sport Organisation is a non-profit, indipendent organisation, that encourages global cooperation to promote the positive influence professional sports- and in particular those who compete in it, can have on humanity. As part of that goal, they hold the annual Football Reputation awards to recognise the clubs and the players who have led the way, setting an example by promoting a better world, and raise awareness of the potential for sports to influence positive change in society. 

Three awards are given out every year - one for a club, one for a player and for a former player. They are elected by secret votes by players, legens, coaches, referees, executives and journalists around Europe. This year Chelsea and Kante were selected for Football Reputation as club and player. 

Kante, known for his humble behavior in and out of the field, was best suited for the award.