 If there is one metroidvania you ought to play this year, it is Moonscars. A dark 2D hack ’n slash Souls-like game, Moonscar promises everything you could possibly want in a Dark Souls inspired fantasy title from bloody thrills, suspense, gloomy gothic atmosphere, a weird confusing plot, and a crap load of challenge leading to keyboard smashing and rage quits.
 Its graphics, themes, and furiously challenging and blood soaked action all add up to create a very deep sense of doom and gloom and that players will work hard as hell to combat, let alone escape.
The world of Moonscars is filled with beings called the clayborne, who as their name indicates are beings made of clay, bone, and ichor, all brought to life by a mysterious person known as The Sculptor. 
The player takes on the role of Grey Irma, a clayborne warrior who awakens with only a few scraps of her memory. As such, she embarks on a gruelling journey seeking out her creator, The Sculptor, in search of answers.
Developer Black Mermaid’s 2D platforming-action game feels a bit chilling and nerve wrecking as it prioritizes and forces players to work their way their through difficult scenarios and make hard choices, particularly when the situation hit its bottom lowest. 
Though all this may indeed make it share many similarities with Dark Souls, Moonscar does not even try to deny its influences, as the game is successfully able to establish its own identity . 
Visually the game feels almost like an oil painting, the animations and lighting are stunning, all of which are in service of bringing its gothic world to life. The beautiful visuals help elevate the action and push the player further into exploring its beautiful and terrifying world.
Combat wise the game combines elements of Dark Souls, Bloodborne, Hollow Knight and a bit of Castlevania, particularly in terms of atmosphere. 
There is a nice variety of enemy types too, from various flying enemies, to jumping foes, and grounded fighters sprinkled throughout the game. Moonscars is now available for PC, PS4, PS5, Switch, Xbox One, and Xbox |S|.  
Score: 8.5/10 A 