Diet and exercise may be key components of weight loss for women, but many other factors play a role.

In fact, studies show that everything from sleep quality to stress levels can have a major impact on hunger, metabolism, body weight, and belly fat.

Fortunately, making a few small changes in your daily routine can bring big benefits when it comes to weight loss.

Here are the top 23 weight loss tips for women.

1. Cut Down on Refined Carbs -
Refined carbs undergo extensive processing, reducing the amount of fiber and micronutrients in the final product.

These foods spike blood sugar levels, increase hunger, and are associated with increased body weight and belly fat .

Therefore, it’s best to limit refined carbs like white bread, pasta, and prepackaged foods. Opt for whole-grain products like oats, brown rice, quinoa, buckwheat, and barley instead.

2. Add Resistance Training to Your Routine -
Resistance training builds muscle and increases endurance.

It’s especially beneficial for women over 50, as it increases the number of calories that your body burns at rest. It also helps preserve bone mineral density to protect against osteoporosis .

Lifting weights, using gym equipment, or performing body-weight exercises are a few simple ways to get started.

3. Drink More Water - 
Drinking more water is an easy and effective way to promote weight loss with minimal effort.

According to one small study, drinking 16.9 ounces (500 ml) of water temporarily increased the number of calories burned by 30% after 30–40 minutes .

Studies also show that drinking water before a meal can increase weight loss and reduce the number of calories consumed by around 13% .

4. Eat More Protein
Protein foods like meat, poultry, seafood, eggs, dairy, and legumes are an important part of a healthy diet, especially when it comes to weight loss.

In fact, studies note that following a high-protein diet can cut cravings, increase feelings of fullness, and boost metabolism .

Sources - https://www.healthline.com/nutrition/weight-loss-for-women