With many evidences pooled together a study was made and publish in Occupational & Environmental Medicine. It explains on how shift work is related with poor working memory and slower mental processing speed. 

The researchers says that shift work leads to poorer working memory and slower mental processing speed. It lowers the level of awareness, alertness and visual focus. It increases the risk of workplace accidents and errors. 

Shift work also brings in many serious health related issues. It involves diseases such as sleep disorders, cardiovascular disease  obesity, diabetes  mood disorders  substance abuse. 

So as a bid to resolve these uncertainties, the researchers scoured research databases for studies looking at the impact of shift work on cognitive performance in working adults. 

18 studies was published between 2005 and 2020, involving 18,802 participants (average age 35) and covering six different outcomes measured by formal tests, were included. 

The outcomes were: processing speed; working memory; alertness (psychomotor vigilance); impulse control and situational response (cognitive control); ability to filter out unimportant visual cues (visual attention); and ability to unconsciously shift between tasks (task switching). 

Five of the studies compared workers in fixed shifts with those working normal office hours while 11 compared workers in rotating shifts with those working normal office hours. Two studies didn’t specify shift type. 

Half the studies included healthcare professionals while the other half focused on different professions, such as police officers, IT staff, etc. 

The results of the studies were pooled, indicating significantly worse performance in shift workers than other types of workers for five of the six outcomes assessed. 

A large significant effect was seen for impulse control and situational response, while the effect for processing speed, working memory, alertness and ability to filter out unimportant visual clues was significant but small. No effect was seen for task switching. 

Sources - https://neurosciencenews.com/shift-work-memory-cognition-20163/