>Chief architect, Ahmad Lahauri led a team of 20,000 artisans in the development of the Taj Mahal. Not only men were present at work but animals too. About 1000 elephants handled the transport of heavy building materials during the two-decade construction project (1632-53).


>The placement of the Taj Mahal’s four minarets—was not an aesthetic choice but a strategic one. In the 17th century, it was hardly uncommon for massive architectural ventures to fall victim to their weight. To protect the crypt of Mumtaz Mahal, chief architect Ustad Ahmad Lahauri tilted the towers slightly so that they would fall away from the rest of the Taj Mahal.


>The colour of the translucent marble keeps changing from dawn to midnight giving it a magical aura in keeping with Shah Jahan’s vision that the tomb and garden should represent paradise on earth.

>In line with Persian and Islamic architectural principles, the Taj Mahal is an almost perfectly symmetrical the only exception to this symmetry is the placing of the cenotaph of Shah Jahan — and his graves— that do not follow perfect geometric proportions

>About 28 types of precious and semi-precious stones were used for adorning the Taj and they were sourced from Tibet, China, Sri Lanka and some parts of India. The translucent white marble was bought from Makrana, a well-known place for marbles in Rajasthan; Jade & Crystal was imported from China, the Jasper from Punjab, Lapis Lazuli from Afghanistan, Carnelia from Arabia and Turquoise from Tibet.

> As per the Islamic tradition, graves aren’t supposed to be decorated. Perhaps this is the reason why Shah Jahan and his wife Mumtaz were buried in a plain crypt beneath the inner chamber of the Taj Mahal.

>Early accounts of the Taj Mahal’s original garden include abundant daffodils, roses and fruit trees. It was then by the end of the 19th Century the British empire changed the landscaping according to their liking which resembled the lawns of London.

>The bronze lamp you see hanging over the cenotaphs of Shah Jahan and Mumtaz Mahal was one of Lord Curzon's gifts to the Taj Mahal.