After the Ukraine war broke out, millions of refugees left their homes. Among them more than 15,000 were Jews who arrived in Israel, as the country’s government welcomes the immigrants in what it calls “Operation Israel Guarantees”. But, under the Law of Return in Israel, any person with at least one Jewish grandparent, or a Jewish spouse, can become a citizen of Israel. According to the law, only 4,500 of Ukrainian Jews who arrived are eligible for Israeli citizenship.    

Ukraine and Russia happen to boast large Jewish communities and Ukraine alone has over 200,000 Jews who have been living in the country for several centuries. Most of them are eligible to become Israeli citizens by virtue of the Law of Return. In spite of the fact that people in this ex-Soviet nation were not allowed to practise the religion in public till the late 1980s, Jews have thrived here as a close-knit community. Many of these people are descendants of victims of Nazi Holocaust before the World War II.  

After the fall of the Soviet Union in 1989, more than a million Jews immigrated to Israel and settled down there as citizens. And now after the Ukraine war, thousands more are expected to arrive from Ukraine—hit by the war—as well as Russia – hit by Western economic sanctions. But most of these people are not going to be expected to be accepted as citizens even if they have relatives in Israel. Thanks to the strict rules, most of them are going to be treated as mere refugees.     

In recent times, Jewishness has become a big issue with right-wing politicians and their supporters who want to restrict the flow of people they consider not Jewish enough. In the past few months, arrival of Jews from conflict-ridden Ethiopia and Eritrea were restricted by these people. 

Ukraine’s president Voldymyr Zelensky, a Jewish, appealed to Israeli parliamentarians, through a virtual address, to be more compassionate towards the Jewish immigrants, citing the plight of their ancestors during the Holocaust. 

READ MORE: 

https://www.nytimes.com/2022/03/23/world/middleeast/israel-ukraine-refugees-jewish.html

https://www.timesofisrael.com/israel-has-opened-its-arms-to-ukrainian-immigrants-but-will-they-have-equal-rights/

https://www.dw.com/en/ukrainian-jews-seek-refuge-in-israel/a-61212852