This studio has produced so many feature animated films and short commercials. I practically grew up watching them and their next film will be the last.

Studio Ghibli is a Japanese animation film studio which was founded in 1985 by Hayao Miyazaki, Isao Takahata and Toshio Suzuki. 5 of the studio's films still dominate the top 10 list of the highest grossing anime feature films made in Japan.

Even though I have watched so many of the studio's films, I'm still not close to have finished the long list. 

It's fascinating how they produce these animations with careful consideration and intricate details. Till date, they hand draw all of their scenes which explains the long years of waiting time for completing each and every production.

One should certainly appreciate the the animated details but more than anything, it's the meaning that these films convey. Each of the movies I have watched have given me a lesson to remember all the time. 

Whenever I feel upset or stressed, watching a studio Ghibli movie always cheers me up. Some of those films also make me cry buckets (watch 'Grave of the Fireflies' only if you have a strong heart to handle it).

Some of my personal favourites include Spirited Away, Howl's Moving Castle, Kiki's Delivery Service and Whisper of the Heart. It's really hard to pick a favourite as such.

The studio temporarily halted productions in 2014 when director Hayao Miyazaki retired. But they resumed productions to make Miyazaki's last feature film called 'How Do You Live?'. The date of release has not been announced but according to the news it has been completed halfway through. It began production many years ago but Miyazaki has reported that his ability to produce minute by minute hand-drawn animations has drastically reduced. However, he's putting a lot of efforts into this last film that he's producing for his grandson to convey that 'grandpa's moving onto the next world soon but he's leaving behind this film'. 

With this last film, it will be like the end of an era that I'll always look back on and cherish.