In Health Psychology, a study conducted by the researchers of University of Pittsburgh found that middle-aged women who practiced self compassion were at lower risk of developing cardiovascular diseases than those who haven't practiced it. 

"A lot of research has been focused on studying how stress and other negative factors may impact cardiovascular health, but the impact of positive psychological factors, such as self-compassion, is far less known," said Rebecca Thurston, PhD, professor of psychiatry, clinical and translational science, epidemiology, and psychology at Pitt, in an emailed statement.  

A Closer Look at the Study  

Nearly 200 women who were between 45 and 67 of age participated in the study. The participants were asked to complete a short questionnaire which consisted of rating how they experience feelings of inadequacy, or when they feel disappointed quite often by their flaws that are self perceived. 

The study also involved ultrasound scanning of each women's carotid arteries (the major vessels in the neck that carry the blood from the heart to the brain). The results from these scanning showed the comparison between those who scored higher in the self compassion scale had thinner carotid artery walls and less plaque buildup. 

A buildup of plaque inside the arteries creates less place for normal blood flow and increases the risk for heart attack in later life, says the National Institute on Aging. 

The results weren’t affected by control for other factors, such as smoking, symptoms of depression, and physical activity.  

Why is Self-compassion Important?  

If we can’t have compassion for ourselves, we can’t receive it from anyone else. “It’s a way to keep up the wall, to remain in the bondage of judgement and never forgive our mistakes,” says Donna Marks, EdD, a psychotherapist and addiction counselor based in Palm Beach, Florida.  

As Marks explains, those mistakes are where we can learn and grow the most. “They are often the basis of our life’s purpose,” she explains. “For example, I used my addiction and recovery to help thousands of people. If I don’t have compassion for myself, I won’t be able to help other people get out of shame.” 

Read more - https://www.verywellmind.com/self-compassion-decreases-cardiovascular-risk-in-women-5219780