( In continuation to Part II )

The 5th, 3rd Gorkha Rifles (5th battalion of 3GR) had its baptism by fire when in 1971, it was tasked to clear enemy post in the heart of winter. The attack was so planned that its ferocity and suddenness unnerved the enemy and the brave men had conquered the formidable feature of Hathimata at 14,000 ft. by the morning of 17th Dec,1971.

Maj. Vinod Bhanot and Rfn. Prem Bahadur Thapa of the 5th, 3rd were awarded the Vir Chakras for this valiant action and the battalion was bestowed Battle Honour "Shingo Rigo Valley" and theatre honour "J&K",1971.

It is because of such great soldiers that the pride of our country and sanctity of its border had remained intact. Although the times of peace may last for some time, the enemies around are always on the prowl to breach the order and take advantage.

In the year 1999, Pak troops intruded in Kargil, Drass and Batalik sectors & occupied dominating features along the LOC. 4 Battalions of the regiment saw valiant action in Drass & Batalic sub-sectors. The 3rd, 3 GR was awarded "General Officer Commander-in-Chief Northern Command Unit citation and theatre honour " Kargil".

Stories of 3 Gorkha Rifles and their legendary courage are countless. The bedrock of this is the high standards of training these men go through. The erstwhile training companies of 3rd and 9th Gorkha rifles were combined to form the 39 Gorkha Training Centre on Oct 1, 1952, at Dehradun.

The Centre later relocated to Varanasi in 1975 under the command of the First Commandant Col. Guman Singh. The skills imbibed and honed while training for war is reflected in all the aspects of life. 

Today the nation continues to prosper and move ahead with peace as it knows that somewhere there lies a " Khukri" resting silent in its sheath prepared to shed the existence of the toughest enemy into speck of dust and above all a strong Himalayan hand clutching it tight the hand of the UNDAUNTED!

"If a man says, he's not afraid of dying, he is either lying or he's a Gorkha".

Concluded.