External Actors in the Afghan problem continues....

The main aim of Pakistan’s Afghan policy, at this time, was to have a friendly government in Afghanistan in order to secure Pakistan’s Western border. 

Unfortunately, the policies, which it adopted, had exactly the opposite effects. In fact, General Khalid M. Arif was right in his prediction that “Pakistan may have to co-exist with a new government in Afghanistan that is not to its entire liking.” None of the Afghan elements was willing to subordinate its actions to Pakistan’s wishes. Rather, many Afghan groups developed contacts with various political groups and state institutions of Pakistan giving those groups leverage. 

In addition, Pakistan’s Afghan policy roused the suspicion among Pakistan’s traditional friends, i.e. China and Iran. 

Ironically, some in Pakistan like, Qazi Hussain Ahmad of Jamaat-e-Islami, who had worked closely with the Afghans and the Pakistani defence establishment, were blaming the ISI with the benefit of hindsight. Qazi Ahmad stated, “Pakistan did not want to see the Afghan people deciding their fate independently” and “were skeptical that if all Afghan people united under one leadership, they would become master of their own fate, which in turn, could create trouble for Pakistan.” The events had a sobering effect on Pakistani establishments and resulted in much introspection about the wisdom of following a shortsighted policy. 

In the mid-1970s, the Pakistani military had begun to train young Afghan Islamists to challenge Kabul’s pro-Moscow inclination. The 1978 Marxist coup further strained relations between the two countries. 

Diplomatically, Pakistan took the lead in, the United Nations, the NonAligned Movement, and the OIC in opposing the Soviet occupation of Afghanistan. During the war against the Soviet occupation, Pakistan had served as the primary logistical conduit for the Afghan resistance. 

Pakistan, aided by UN agencies, private groups, and many friendly countries, continued to provide refuge to several million Afghans. 

To be continued....