Thang Ta--"The Art of the Sword and Spear"-- is the  traditional martial art of Manipur in Northeast India.   It integrates various external weapons - the sword, spear,  dagger, etc. - with the internal practice of physical control through soft movements coordinated with the  rhythms of breathing.  It is part of the great heroic  tradition of Manipur.
Its origin lies in the timeless  creation myths where, according to local legend, all movements of the Manipuris originated from Thang Ta. -  AIKIKAI OF PHILADELPHIA, USA.

The proper name for Thang-Ta is HUYEN LALLONG ("method of safe-guarding"). As the name implies, Huyen Lallong is more than just the training of fighting skills.  It is an elaborate system of physical culture that involves breathing methods, meditations, and rituals. Some of the sword and spear forms are entirely ritualistic, although they are composed of material techniques.  They are to be performed only at special occasions or under special circumstances. For example, there is a spear form that is performed at funerals.  Perhaps the most famous form is the ritual spear dance done by King Bhagyachandra (ruled 1759-1798) on a mountain top during his exile due to the Burmese invasion in 1762.  The Manipuris believe that the ritual was instrumental in driving the Burmese out of Manipur.

The heart of Thang-Ta is the "sword". There are literally hundreds of different sword drills for training the basic strokes and stepping patterns.  Many are two person sets, but others may be practiced solo, at least initially.  The Thang-Ta spear forms are more complicated and must be seen to be appreciated.  "Many are the warnings given by the old
teachers to their students who, they say, may seriously injure their limbs by incorrect stepping according to the design - PAKHANGBA, a coiled serpent motif",  wrote Louis Light foot (1958) in "Dance Rituals of Manipur".  Thang-Ta is almost completely unknown today outside Manipur.  In India itself, the art is not well known, although a
documentary was broadcast on Indian television in 1994. "Unfortunately, opportunities for Westerners to study Thang-Ta are very limited. 

Credit - the manipur page