Roe v/s Wade rages in the US, Northern Ireland is in a similar situation. It took Ireland so long to bring an abortion law yet it was a moment of hope. According to the guardian Even after two years of legalisation of abortion, women in Northern Ireland struggle to access services which are feeble to non-existent.  Abortion was legalised in Northern Ireland in October 2019, bringing it into line with the rest of the UK, after a Westminster vote led by the Labour MP Stella Creasy. Activists heralded it as a new era. Yet even after this progressive legislation as Alyson Kilpatrick, chief commissioner of Northern Ireland Human Rights Commission said on Wednesday. “In Northern Ireland women and girls are still faced with deplorable options,” she said.
‌
Moreover, Grainne Teggart, Amnesty International’s campaigns manager for Northern Ireland said “Despite securing decriminalisation and the overturning of our near-total abortion ban, we are still waiting for commissioned services to be established and for this healthcare to be accessible to all who need it. We have a postcode lottery for access to abortion providers and the services that are in place remain in a fragile state.”

Even though decriminalisation of abortion was supported by most of Northern Ireland, political parties moved it carefully as it might eliminate the conservative supporters.

In the manuscript, Northern Ireland permits abortion in many circumstances up to 24 weeks – which is more permissive than in other parts of the UK. In some areas, abortion pills are available for up to 10 weeks of pregnancy. The region has had more than 2,550 abortions since March 2020, according to the Department of Health. But women in western areas cannot access the pills via the region’s health trust. And women who are more than 10 weeks pregnant still need to travel to England for abortions. This does affect the rural working class as the difficulty they have to undergo to have an abortion. Even the pills are not affordable to the poor women for the cost. This problem should be solved or else Ireland will face a similar situation as America.