Until Thursday evening most liberals – including journalists, activists, writers and artists – didn’t really believe that Putin would really launch a full-blown attack on Ukraine. They were caught unawares at the crack of the dawn on February 24 when they learnt Russia had launched a “special military operation” in order to “protect the civilians” in Donbas, a disputed region in south-eastern Ukraine, via state-controlled media. 

However, reports from within Ukraine revealed the assault was not just on Donbas, Russian troops along with state-backed rebels in the region, were all over the country, considered a “friendly neighbour,” by most liberal citizens.   

These members of the civil society initially vented their frustrations through social media. Writer Dmitry Glukhovsky wrote in a Facebook post strongly condemning the “fratricidal, predatory war”, unleashed by “an insane tyrant”. Dmitry Muratov, a 2021 Nobel Peace Prize winner and editor-in-chief of Novaya Gazeta recorded a video in YouTube saying he and his colleagues at the newspaper “felt grief” and “were ashamed” that their country started a war and wondered whether Putin’s next “step will be a nuclear attack.” Film director Roman Volbuev lamented that they failed to stop Putin for the past 20 years. 

Some journalists covering international politics signed an open letter and posted in Telegram decrying the military operation as “unjustified” and “wouldn’t help at all in solving the conflict” in Ukraine.  

Marina Litvinovich, a Moscow-based journalist and activist was courageous enough to call for public protests through a Facebook video and posts. Police promptly detained her at home. Later, when thousands took to the streets protesting the invasion, from St Petersburg to Siberia, over 1,700 demonstrators were arrested, according to human rights group OVD-Info.

The protest, however, was much more subdued compared to those that happened in 2014, after Moscow seized Ukraine. Ever since then Putin has put rein in a large section of liberals and members of the opposition through draconian laws that stamp all dissidents as “foreign agents”.Charismatic opposition leaders like Boris Nemtsov and Aleksei Navalny have been either killed or arrested with false allegations.   

READ MORE: 

https://slate.com/technology/2022/02/liberals-russia-ukraine-war-social-media-protests.html 

https://www.rferl.org/a/russian-public-war-ukraine-beliefs/31720800.html

https://www.wsj.com/articles/russians-against-invasion-11645733734