Until recently, the medical community didn’t have data on breast cancer rates in the transgender community. Transgender people have historically faced large amounts of discrimination, and data often wasn’t taken or recorded appropriately.

Discrimination and barriers to care still exist for the transgender community today, but there have been substantial steps forward. For instance, for years it was assumed that transgender women had the same risk of breast cancer as cisgender men, but new data has shown this isn’t the case.

Medical researchers now know that transgender women have an increased risk of breast‌ cancer compared with cisgender men, and they should follow breast cancer screening guidelines.

In this article, we’ll take a look at the breast cancer risk factors for transgender women and screening recommendations.

What is the breast cancer risk in transgender women?

We still don’t have a lot of information about transgender women’s exact risk for breast cancer. However, the results of a 2019 provided a few valuable pieces of data.

The study looked for cases of breast cancer among transgender people taking hormone therapy who received care at the gender clinic of the VU University Medical Centre Amsterdam in the Netherlands between 1972 and 2016. The Centre was chosen because it is a major public health facility, where more than 95 percent of transgender people in the Netherlands receive care.

Researchers found that transgender women who receive hormone therapy have an increased risk of breast cancer when compared with cisgender men. Data from the study also shows that the risk increased after being treated with gender affirming hormones for only a short time.

Additionally, data from the study indicated that transgender women who developed breast cancer often got it at a younger age than cisgender women.

The median age of breast cancer diagnosis for transgender women in the study was 52. The average age of breast cancer diagnosis for cisgender women in the Netherlands is 61.


Sources - https://www.healthline.com/health/breast-cancer/trans-women-breast-cancer#risk-factors