The 4-7-8 breathing technique is a breathing pattern developed by Dr. Andrew Weil. It’s based on an ancient yogic technique called pranayama, which helps practitioners gain control over their breathing.


When practiced regularly, it’s possible that this technique could help some people fall asleep in a shorter period of time.

How does the 4-7-8 breathing technique work?

Breathing techniques are designed to bring the body into a state of deep relaxation. Specific patterns that involve holding the breath for a period of time allow your body to replenish its oxygen. From the lungs outward, techniques like 4-7-8 can give your organs and tissues a much-needed oxygen boost.


Relaxation practices also help bring the body back into balance and regulate the fight-or-flight response we feel when we’re stressed. This is particularly helpful if you’re experiencing sleeplessness due to anxiety or worries about what happened today — or what might happen tomorrow. Swirling thoughts and concerns can keep us from being able to rest well.


The 4-7-8 technique forces the mind and body to focus on regulating the breath, rather than replaying your worries when you lie down at night. Proponents claim it can soothe a racing heart or calm frazzled nerves. Dr. Weil has even described it as a “natural tranquilizer for the nervous system.”

The overall concept of 4-7-8 breathing can be compared to practices like:

1 Alternate nostril breathing 
involves breathing
in and out of one nostril at a time while holding the other nostril closed.

2 Mindfulness meditation
encourages focused breathing while guiding your attention
to the present moment.

3 Visualization 
focuses your mind on the path and pattern of your natural breathing.

4 Guided imagery 
encourages you to focus on a happy memory or story that will take your
mind off your worries as you breathe.

People experiencing mild sleep disturbances, anxiety, and stress may find 4-7-8 breathing helpful for overcoming distraction and slipping into a relaxed state.


Read more - https://www.healthline.com/health/4-7-8-breathing