Ms Urvashi Nirav Patel from Surat described to the Prime Minister, her journey of promoting Jan Aushadhi in her Area and how the low-cost sanitary pads from the Jan Aushadi Kendra helped her to donate it to more people through her efforts. The Prime Minister appreciated her service spirit as a political activist. This will enhance the role of service in public life. He also suggested that beneficiaries of PM Awas Yojana and beneficiaries of free ration during the pandemic should be approached for increasing their awareness regarding hygiene.

Shri Shailesh Khandelwal from Raipur spoke about his journey with Jan Aushadi Pariyojana. He said that he felt good that the medicines were low cost and he spread the word to all his patients. The Prime Minister asked other doctors also to promote Jan Aushadhi among the people.

Addressing the gathering, the Prime Minister said Jan Aushadhi Kendras are centres for medicine for the body, they also reduce the anxiety of the mind and they are also centres of relief to the people by saving their money. The Prime Minister expressed satisfaction that such benefits are accruing to all segments of people and in all parts of the country. He also noted the success of the 1 rupee sanitary napkin. The sale of 21 crore sanitary napkins shows that Jan Aushadhi Kendras have made the lives of women easy all over the country.

The Prime Minister said as of now more than 8,500 Jan Aushadhi Kendras have been opened in the country. These centres are now becoming solution centres for the common man and not just another government store. He said that the government has also controlled the price of more than 800 medicines required for the treatment of diseases like cancer, tuberculosis, diabetes, heart disease. The government has also ensured that the cost of stunting and knee implants is also kept under control. He gave statistics regarding making medical care affordable for the citizens. He informed that more than 50 crore people are in the ambit of Ayushman Bharat Yojana.

Continued here:- https://www.pixstory.com/story/pm-interacts-with-beneficiaries-of-jan-aushadhi-yojana-part-31646646069/85681