China has never hidden the fact that its programs ' Fox Hunt'' and ''Sky Net'' are ""important measures"" for China's anti-corruption campaign since they were launched in 2014 and 2015. But these operations are also being increasingly used to lure dissidents that China feels are harming its interests.
 
Fox Hunt also caught the eyes of the U.S. authorities in 2021 when the U.S. Department of Justice charged nine ""illegal agents of the Chinese government"" for participating in the Fox Hunt operation in the U.S. China has often defended this program saying that the "fugitives" are often apprehended in foreign countries with the help of the governments there and there is nothing illegal in it. 
 
According to a Spain-based NGO ''Safeguard Defenders'' that tracks Chinese government's programs, their efforts have resulted in the return of over 10,000 people and a majority of these were "involuntary returns."(https://safeguarddefenders.com/en/blog/involuntary-returns-report-exposes-long-arm-policing-overseas) China has officially admitted that it has brought as many as 8,000 from abroad through these programs. 
 
In recent years, the Safeguard Defenders alleges that many individuals were brought back through the legal extradition means. The methods used ranged from family intimidation to state-sanctioned kidnappings, they say. And the dissidents include pro-democracy and Uyghur activists living in several parts of the world.
 
One unsuccessful operation involving several Chinese government agents and local accomplices, targeted a Chinese citizen living outside of New York City. In 2021, the FBI charged nine defendants for conducting surveillance of and engaging in a campaign ""to harass, stalk and coerce"" certain residents of the United States to return to China. (https://www.justice.gov/opa/pr/nine-individuals-charged-superseding-indictment-conspiring-act-illegal-agents-people-s)
 
China has been able to bring over 2500 people since the pandemic broke, and one of the tactics used in the Middle East to repatriate Uyghur activists could be through kidnappings with the governments turning a blind eye. 
 
The government-controlled Chinese media has accused the Safeguard Defenders of ""lying through its teeth"" saying this is part of a broader Western agenda to ""demonize"" China. 
 
Read more:
 
China forced 2,500 ''fugitives'' back from overseas during pandemic, report finds:
https://www.theguardian.com/world/2022/jan/18/china-forced-2500-fugitives-back-from-overseas-during-pandemic-report-finds