Birth control pills are one of the birth control methods which can prevent pregnancy when taken consistently and in the prescribed manner. The manner in which you should take birth control pills is dependent on the type of birth control pill you’re taking. Dosing regimens differ by kind and brand. The pill does not have to be taken with food. However, it’s recommended not to take them on an empty stomach if you’re susceptible to nausea.
Let’s have a look at the dosage information for each variety:
*1. Combination pills or COCPs:*
You will be protected from pregnancy if you take one pill every day. It is generally advised to take the pill at the same time every day. 
The number of days you take a pill in a row is determined by the brand. This is because combination pills are available in a variety of dose packs ranging from 21 to 365 days.
Most brands require you to take active pills for at least 3 weeks (usually 21 days) and then inactive pills for 2 to 7 days or no pills at all. These inactive pills are basically dummy pills and they don’t contain any hormones. When you take these inactive pills or don’t take pills for 7 days, your uterus will shed its layer of blood and you will get your periods (although because you aren’t ovulating, these aren’t really periods). 
*2. Progestin-only pills or POPs:*
To avoid pregnancy, you must take progestin-only pills at the same time within 3 hours every day. Only 28-day (4-week) packs of progestin-only pills are available. Hormones are present in all 28 pills. To avoid pregnancy, you must take every pill in a progestin-only pack – there is no hormone-free week. Your period may arrive in the fourth week. You could also experience sporadic bleeding (spotting) or go without a period for the entire month.
Sources: 
1-https://www.healthline.com/health/birth-control/how-to-take-birth-control-pills
2-https://www.plannedparenthood.org/learn/birth-control/birth-control-pill/how-do-i-use-the-birth-control-pill
3-https://www.webmd.com/sex/birth-control/how-to-take-birth-control-pills