By Shivaji Dasgupta
Kolkata: In a chillingly considerate message (deservedly viral), the founder of The Bombay Shaving Company Shantanu Deshpande recommended generously that six hours of personal time were indeed required. Or rather, young employees should work 18 hours a day unquestioningly serving the interests of the 'paymaster-land'. 
As a specimen of the Advertising industry, I am well familiar with such obsessive lines of thinking. Sadistic and desperate bosses were deeply prone to overworking their juniors as well as themselves, to prove amply that input levels were aptly comparable to the rigours of Kalapani. This did lead to the occasional out-of-turn promotion but such fiends were usually found out much before the slog overs, their careers invariably thwarted by the civility ceiling. 
In fact, most often, such characters across industries were direly deprived of personal lives or plainly preferred to deny the role of any. So when the dynamic new branch head of my erstwhile employer, migrating from Delhi, stoutly espoused the 8-hour day and 5-day week, most were duly stunned. Especially because this man turned out to be a dynamo at work, transforming the business with gusto, in spite of refusing to witness a solitary sunset at the workplace. 
Quite dramatically, the primacy of productivity over demonstration was established and that remained a learning and an inspiration, replicated by many worthies. Not to be confused with the slow-motion culture of nationalised banks, where the lunch hour had the potential to surpass working hours, especially if biryani (with extra egg) was on the table. As the years rolled, most realised that one was truly seeking a work-life 'equilibrium', 'balance' being a biased word as it assumes the tyranny of one over the other. 
Most notably, this equilibrium is entirely a matter of personal choice, more so today while partially exercised yesterday. Having hung around with senior doctors over decades, I now recognise this pattern. Some were so wedded to their discipline that the night was willed to be a hasty interlude, others chose to pursue parallel vocations in theatre or music, while yet others continuously complained about being overworked. 
Read more
https://www.newsdrum.in/columns/shantanu-deshpande-should-we-work-24-hours-a-day-83525.html
