Depp will helm Modigliani, a film on Italian artist Amedeo Modigliani, twenty-five years after he co-directed it with Marlon Brando in 1997's The Brave, his feature directorial debut. He will also co-produce the film with Al Pacino and Barry Navidi.

The movie tells the tale of the painter and sculptor in Paris in 1916 and is based on the play by Dennis McIntyre that Jerzy and Mary Kromolowski adapted for the screen. Modigliani, who had previously regarded himself as a critical and financial failure, experiences a tumultuous and exciting 48 hours that will ultimately serve as a turning point in his life and confirm his status as an artistic legend. THR is aware that the start of production in Europe is scheduled for the spring of 2023 , with casting to be revealed shortly.

"I'm immensely thrilled and profoundly humbled to bring the saga of Mr. Modigliani's life to the movie," said Depp, who produces for IN.2, the European division of his production firm Infinitum Nihil. It was a life marked by extreme adversity and eventual triumph—a universally human story that all viewers can relate to.

Another European project for Depp is Modigliani as he seeks to resume his acting career after his recent and traumatic defamation trial against ex-wife Amber Heard. The 59-year-old Pirates of the Caribbean star defeated Heard in a $50 million slander lawsuit earlier this year. While she did not specifically name Depp, his legal team maintained that her account of domestic abuse in a 2018 op-ed for the Washington Post showed that he had been aggressive during their relationship, something he vehemently disputed. Heard, 36, won one of her countersuit claims and received $2 million when the jury ultimately voted in his favour and awarded the actor $10 million.

Johnny Depp has produced 10 movies, most notably Crock of Gold: A Few Rounds With Shane MacGowan in 2020. This isn't a biography; it's a snapshot of Modigliani's life. Depp is starring as King Louis XV in Mawenn's Jeanne du Barry, which began filming in July.