President Biden, in a rare prime-time address Thursday, called on Congress to take immediate action on gun control, seeking to transform emotion and anger into change as the nation reeled from a spate of horrific mass shootings from New York to Texas to Oklahoma.

The United States has resisted firearms limits following wrenching murderous attacks that have erupted on an increasingly regular basis over the past few decades, but Biden sought to channel a feeling by some in Washington that this time could be different in the aftermath of a racist massacre and a slaughter at an elementary school that gripped the nation’s attention.

“After Columbine, after Sandy Hook, after Charleston, after Orlando, after Las Vegas, after Parkland, nothing has been done,” Biden said, reeling off a litany of devastating mass killings. “This time, that can’t be true. This time we must actually do something.”

Biden delivered the speech at a delicate moment, as a small bipartisan group of senators worked on a package of potential gun restrictions that they hoped would pass conservative muster. Even modest steps would mark a notable shift from recent years.

The president, however, called for a set of sweeping changes to the country’s gun laws, including banning assault weapons and limiting high-capacity magazines. The political dynamics in the evenly divided Senate make odds on those proposals remote, as many Republican senators and their constituents are deeply wedded to gun rights as a part of conservative and rural culture.

Biden said that if was politically impossible to ban assault weapons, Congress should at least raise the age when they can be legally purchased from 18 to 21. And he sought to nod to the sentiments of gun rights supporters. “I respect the culture and the tradition and the concerns of lawful gun owners,” he said. “At the same time, the Second Amendment, like all other rights, is not absolute.”

Read more
https://www.washingtonpost.com/politics/2022/06/02/biden-guns-prime-time-address/