Its victory in four states has strengthened the BJP's position in the presidential elections scheduled for July this year. 

Any adverse outcome in Uttar Pradesh would have put the National Democratic Alliance (NDA) in a tight spot and forced the BJP to approach the Biju Janata Dal and the YSR Congress Party. 

But now it is a cakewalk. 

The term of President Ram Nath Kovind ends on July 24. It is not known yet if he could get another term or Vice President M Venkaiah Naidu will be elevated. So far, only first president Rajendra Prasad was elected twice.

Naidu also retires on August 10. 

The electoral college for the President's election comprises elected members of the Lok Sabha, the Rajya Sabha and elected members of state legislative assemblies and that of NCT Delhi and Union Territory of Puducherry. Members of Legislative Councils. Nominated members do not form part of the electoral college.

In numbers, the electoral college is made up of 233 members of the Rajya Sabha, 543 members of the Lok Sabha and 4,120 members of legislative assemblies - a total of 4,896 electors.

The value of the vote of every MP has been fixed at 708, while among states the value of the vote of an MLA is the highest at 208.

The presidential elections follow the system of proportional representation by means of a single transferable vote. The value of each vote is pre- determined in proportion to the population of the respective state based on the 1971 census.

The total value of the electoral college, comprising 4,896 electors is 10,98,903 and the winning candidate has to get at least 50 per cent plus one vote to be declared as elected

The Vice President is elected indirectly by members of an electoral college consisting of the members of both Houses of Parliament by the system of proportional representation using single transferable votes and the voting is conducted by Election Commission of India via secret ballot.

Apart from being the ex-officio Chairman of the Rajya Sabha, the Vice President is also acts as the chancellor of the central universities of India.