By Sneha Kumari
Be it year on year or season on season, we hear the broadcasters of cricket properties announcing the hike in ad rates by 10-15%.
However, for the advertisers, it is much more if they want to catch the same set of audiences who keep migrating to other mediums including OTT.
As per experts, the dilemma of choosing which medium they should target to woo consumers has not only expanded but has also become increasingly expensive for advertisers.
This has largely happened due to the foray of digital platforms catering to the cricket-watching audience. It makes the advertisers’ job messier as now they not only have to decide the ratio of resource allocation but also have to justify the ROI on the high rates which broadcasters and streaming platforms charge.
Experts told BestMediaInfo.com that audience fragmentation has made cricket a very expensive affair to associate with, hence many top advertisers are getting wary of spending on cricket.
If an advertiser wants to be present across all the mediums, then they have to buy the ad spot across all the fragmented platforms. Therefore, the cost to advertisers has gone up a lot due to the fragmentation of the market taking place as compared to the earlier ways of buying.
Shashank Srivastava
Shashank Srivastava, Executive Director, Marketing and Sales, Maruti Suzuki India highlighted that TV has a wider reach, whereas digital or OTT have a more targeted reach and primarily for the metro audience. Around 65% to 70% of the impressions bought on OTT get served to non-subscribers who come on the platforms for the first 5 mins when the content is available for free, he added.
He also highlighted that for the MSIL association on T20 WC, 43% of the total impressions were delivered in the six metros.
Also, in India, cricket is more of an inclusive viewing rather than individual viewing. Hence, TV gives an advertiser a wider reach base vis-a-vis OTT or digital.
Read more: https://bestmediainfo.com/2022/09/indepth-are-traditional-advertisers-getting-wary-of-spending-on-cricket
