We all watched as the horrors unfolded in long-term care (LTC) in Canada during the COVID-19 pandemic. Canadian LTC residents represented 81 per cent of the national reported COVID-19 deaths.

News reports documented our national shame as older residents suffered throughout the pandemic. They experienced inhumane treatment, ranging from physical and social solitary confinement to severe neglect, and even death from dehydration and malnourishment.

Residents were confined to their rooms for extended periods of time without access to recreation programs or visitors, including essential family caregivers who often provided the majority of daily care, like feeding and dressing, as well as socialization.

The Canadian military was deployed to some of the hardest-hit LTC homes across Canada. They documented disturbing accounts of abuse and substandard care — residents were left for days in soiled bedding and were documented choking on their food due to improper feeding. Some LTC homes had insect infestations and poor infection prevention and control practices.

Family caregivers watched as the tragedies and distress occurred, while they were forbidden from visiting their loved ones in these homes.

Collective trauma
Essential family caregivers are defined as any trusted individual chosen by the resident or their substitute decision-maker who provides care and companionship to a resident.

In many provinces, LTC homes began drafting strict rules allowing only a small number of essential family caregivers — one or two — into LTC homes at varying stages throughout the pandemic, and initially only for residents receiving palliative care. This access was often regulated by varying rules. These designated family members were often the only connection LTC residents had to the world outside their room.

Collective trauma can be understood as a “cataclysmic event” that significantly, directly or indirectly, impacts a unique group of people. Our research shows that essential family caregivers of residents in LTC experienced collective trauma caused by prolonged separation, resulting in feelings of extreme helplessness and hopelessness.

Read more: https://theconversation.com/caregivers-were-traumatized-by-covid-19-public-health-and-long-term-care-policies-185109