In the unofficial calendar of Afghanistan, the 30th of Saur is known as the Hazara Culture Day.

Last year, the day was celebrated for the first time in Pakistan.

This year, amid political turmoil following the rise of the Taliban, social media users commemorated Hazara Culture Day.
 Hazara Culture Day is celebrated to prevent the forgetting of Afghanistan's cultural traditions and to preserve Hazara rituals and customs.

For them, this day is an excuse to commemorate rituals that have ancient and ancient roots in the past.

Sami Atai, a filmmaker who has been researching the rituals and theatrical culture of the Hazara people for ten years, believes that recording such a day in the Afghan calendar will make everyone think more deeply about the Hazara culture.

In 2014, Sami Atai released the film "Kohan Yadgar e sarzamin azar". This 54-minute film depicts a collection of customs and traditions of the tribes living in the central regions of Afghanistan.

Video link-  https://youtu.be/3Nr6eSQ04-A

Two decades of democracy have provided an opportunity for many Afghans to become more familiar with Hazara music and dance through cultural and artistic festivals.

Strict laws imposed by the Taliban and violence throughout the country have sidelined all cultural activities in Kabul and other parts of Afghanistan for cultural and artistic interactions.

Prior to the fall of the previous government, women's clothing and handicraft markets were established in some millennial areas, such as Bamyan.

These bazaars not only introduced the Hazara culture, but also fostered small businesses in the area.

 The last twenty years have provided an opportunity for Hazaras to get to know their tangible culture better and introduce it to others, but now there is a need to look at other aspects of Hazara culture that are still alive, such as symbols, architecture, oral literature and the common Hazara dialect. Which have Avestan roots should also be investigated.

  Hazaragi local clothes, sewing and the color used in it are praiseworthy for people of other countries. This in itself should encourage us to know the Hazara culture accurately.