The 2022 UEFA Nations League kicks off this week and will see Serbia host Norway at the
Stadium Rajko Mitic in their group opener on Thursday.

Serbia has rebounded well after failing to qualify for the European Championship last year,
securing a second straight World Cup berth following a strong qualification campaign. With their
four games over the next two weeks, they'll be trying to prepare for the tournament in Qatar.

Serbia failed to go past the group stage in the previous edition of the event, winning only one of
their six games, and will be hoping to do better this year.

On the other hand, Norway failed to qualify for the World Cup for the sixth time in a row after two
consecutive losses in the last two games of the qualifiers last month. They'll now try to put that
behind them with a strong performance. The Lions finished runners-up to Austria in their group
standings last time out and will be looking to go a step further this year.

Serbia vs Norway: Probable Playing XI

Serbia:Marko Dmitrovic; Milos Veljkovic, Matija Nastasić, Nikola Milenkovic; Filip Kostic,
Nemanja Gudelj, Sergej Milinkovic-Savic, Saša Lukić, Andrija Zivkovic; Dusan Tadic;Aleksandar Mitrovic

Norway:Ørjan Nyland; Birger Meling, Andreas Hanche-Olsen, Leo Ostigard, Marcus Pedersen;
Morten Thorsby, Sander Berge, Martin Ødegaard; Mohamed Elyounoussi, Jens Hauge, Erling
Braut Haaland

Serbia vs Norway: Prediction

Serbia hasn't lost at home since the end of 2020, and with so much competition for spots ahead
of a thrilling winter in the Middle East, they should be at their best on Thursday.

While Norway's current crop is unquestionably their best in decades, few teams in Belgrade
impose terms, thus the visitors' Nations League campaign might be doomed from the start.

Prediction: Serbia 2-1 Norway

Serbia vs Norway: Telecast & Live Stream

Premier Sports have the rights to televise UEFA Nations League matches in the UK so it is worth
checking their schedule for Serbia vs Norway and if it is not televised on Premier Sports,
subscribers will be able to stream the match live on Premier Player.