In 2022, the number of forcibly displaced people surpassed 100 million worldwide. Nearly 1.5 million refugees will need resettlement in 2022, but less than one per cent of refugees will be resettled.

Across the globe, the declining rate of refugee resettlement and the absence of legal avenues has forced refugees to use smugglers to cross borders to access refugee protection.

In response to these trends, high-income countries have introduced draconian deterrence measures that prevent people from reaching their territory to claim asylum.

By virtue of their irregular arrival, refugees who enlist smugglers to claim asylum are criminalized and and often pushed back, which prevents them from accessing the rights of refugee status outlined in the 1951 Refugee Convention.
The ‘Rwanda Plan’
The United Kingdom has been at the forefront of efforts to deter and prevent refugees from seeking asylum on its territory. The U.K. has an established track record of using draconian measures to deter migrants.

When she was home secretary in 2012, Theresa May stated that her aim “was to create here in Britain a really hostile environment for illegal migration.” She later served as prime minister. Successive governments have maintained this agenda, culminating in the U.K. and Rwanda Migration and Economic Development Partnership.

The “Rwanda Plan” involves transferring asylum seekers and migrants arriving “illegally” in the U.K. — such as those crossing the English Channel in boats — to Rwanda, where they will be processed and resettled
The plan has been widely condemned by international courts, charities, religious groups, celebrities and asylum seekers. The UN Refugee Agency has “firmly opposed” the partnership and re-emphasized that state actions that prevent refugees from reaching destination countries and claiming asylum lead to the shifting, rather than the sharing, of responsibilities to protect asylum seekers.

In her speech on April 14, Home Secretary Priti Patel argued the following:

“Evil people smugglers and their criminal gangs are facilitating people into Europe, resulting in loss of life and huge costs to the U.K. taxpayer. 

Read more: https://theconversation.com/debunking-the-myth-of-the-evil-people-smuggler-187059