Undoubtedly one of the most important and famous rock bands to come out in 90s, Nirvana’s brand of music was a watershed moment in the history of rock. Their brand of raw, distorted, simplistic form of rock labelled 'grunge' was a tight slap in the face of the heavily commercialized sophisticated overproduced hair bands like Bon Jovi, Warrant, Cinderella etc who were making sissy music, dressed up as women.
 
Meant as an antidote to the corporate manufactured trash rock of the glam metal scene, Nirvana had their good points, they were raw, simple and full of angst, which the average teenager could easily relate to. When the band released their debut album ‘Bleach’, it was by far the best thing they had ever done for it was every thing you’d want in a raw hard edged rock album.
 
 But in comparison to their other Seattle based peers like Melvins, Alice In Chains, Stone Temple Pilots and Soundgarden, Nirvana was far too edgy, unoriginal and simplistic with their punk rock sensibilities. Essentially a punk rock band which combine Black Sabbath with Black Flag, Nirvana was never really the good kind of band, their status is over exaggerated due to Kurt Cobain’s suicide, otherwise they never would have achieved the status of legend that they have achieved today.
 
While Dave Grohl was a cool drummer, it is simply unreal how many think that Cobain was some genius songwriter. Had they continued playing today, they would have in all likelihood would have been a burnt out rock band with little to offer. They certainly wouldn’t be considered gods of rock.
 
 The songwriting was as plain as it could get and Kurt Cobain was a horrible guitarist, there is no other way to put it. Nirvana was a painfully average band which was comprised of a bunch guys simply making wild, unfiltered, raw music, that's it.

Though it has one of the worst fandoms ever, Nirvana was not a horrible band by any means but they were definitely the definition of overrated and are undeserving of their status as rock gods.