Kiran- A mini village for the uplift and development of the physically handicapped and the under previledged situated at Modhopur, 12 km away from City on bank of Ganges in Varanasi, is the embodiment of the dream that a minor Swiss girl at the age of 14, Judith Keller was obsessed.
A dream that was conceived in far away in Switzerland, finally took shape in Varanasi in 1990 with a group of people from various backgrounds . It worked till 8 years in Nagwa area near BHU and in in 1998, it shifted to Madhopur and took shape of a mini village, known as Kiran Center. It has been serving to the physically handicapped and socially handicapped and under privileged children to streamline them.
Today, it has become a leading center for the rehabilitation of the under privileged children of Varanasi and sorrounding districts . The Kiran society in the beginning was founded by Judith Keller , a Swiss national , active in social work in India since 1974, presently known as Sister Sangeeta among locals.This tireless and compassionate woman has made a sun of hope rise for the children , who have been consigned to the depth of despair because of their disability.
The 70 year old ," Sanyasin" in her childhood used to dream about coming to India for serving to poors by setting an Ashram.She worked as nurse in Geneva and France for two years and later took up the job of a nurse in a leprosy hospital at Teivandrum in India in 1972. She started working in Varanasi since 1972. The center through a staff of around 100 people including teachers and non teachers have been working hard to provide education and vocational training to the children, coming here from different districts of Eastern UP.
Sister Sangeeta says," Ours aims and objectives include, undertaking measures for long socio economic welfare of disabled by enabling them to be self reliant and by integrating them in to mainstream of the society.
Daily, Physio sessions are given to handicapped children by expert technicions to prevent and correct deformities