Chrissie Swan has been an inspiration for many, transforming her health and approach to life, most notably by taking up walking.

The television and radio personality, 48, has now shared her motivation - “walking miracles”, which she says would never happen if she stayed at home.

Chrissie posted an explainer on her Instagram, alongside a selfie with former Dancing with the Stars contestant Ricki-Lee.

“There are MANY reasons I love strapping on my backpack and hitting the streets for a long walk,” she said.

“But chief among them is the people I run into that I wouldn’t have, had I been sitting at home.

“It happens with exciting regularity.

“I call them ‘walking miracles’ and yesterday I had two!

“First I was walking in Richmond listening to Miley Cyrus and I looked up to see the face of my beautiful friend Colette Mann.

“We sat and caught up on a park bench.

“Then later I was walking in the city and the heavenly Ricki-Lee Coulter was all of a sudden in front of me and we cuddled and then I joined her and her gorgeous husband at a table and had coffees and chatted for hours.”

Chrissie’s active lifestyle changes began during Melbourne’s 112-day COVID lockdown in 2020.

She quit booze, found a fitness routine, took up meditation and began taking long walks.

In February, the self-proclaimed “crazy walking lady” showed off the hilarious way she was fitting exercise into her daily routine.

“You know you’ve become a crazy walking lady when you’re in the middle of cooking dinner and you realise you’re out of sour cream.

“And then you get excited about squeezing in another walk to the supermarket again.”

Chrissie also recently shared a reposted photo of her playing netball, another fun way she stays active.

Along with adding exercise into her routine, the busy mum has adjusted her eating habits, opting for cleaner food.

She also continues to share with followers that an alcohol-free lifestyle is full of many positives, such as no hangovers and improved sleep.

“Getting better sleep is actually quite the commitment - and I was surprised at how dedicated I had to be once I decided that enough was enough.