In his authoritative history of war correspondents, The First Casualty, journalist and historian, the late Philip Knightley, identified a dilemma that has long confronted journalists reporting conflict: whose side are they on? Knightley warns that the “aims of the military and the media are irreconcilable”. Soldiers want to win wars and hide the consequences of their actions from the world. Journalists want to depict the horror and write a “first draft of history”.

In Ukraine, this dilemma is diluted, at least for correspondents reporting about Russia’s war of aggression in Ukraine for audiences in western democracies. Correspondents reporting for US, UK and EU-based broadcasters and newspapers know they are on the side of truth. The absence of Nato troops from the battlefield, the technology at their disposal and the Ukrainian government’s need for support give these 21st-century war correspondents an advantage over their predecessors.

Whether for radio, television, web or print, western correspondents in Ukraine can file instantly via satellite internet. Their words and pictures are not subject to direct censorship. They and their employers have access to images shared by Ukrainian soldiers and civilians. Some theorists refer to the latter as “citizen journalists”, but they may be better described as eyewitnesses. Journalists have always cherished eyewitness testimony and these days the ubiquity of mobile telephones with internet access means such testimony comes supported by evidence. All of which means that concealment of war crimes is exceptionally difficult – as the images of dead civilians on the streets of Bucha have demonstrated to chilling effect.

The resulting torrent of journalism delivers an unprecedented deluge of news from the frontlines. Correspondents covering the second world war, Vietnam, the Falklands and the Gulf War had neither the technology nor the freedom their modern counterparts enjoy. Today’s journalists must contend with a barrage of propaganda from the Ukrainian side – but, to be fair, the narrative of the war so far has played into the hands of Ukraine. Russian forces are bombarding Ukrainian towns and cities. Russian soldiers have killed civilians in cold blood. Russia’s invasion of Ukraine was based on lies.

Read more: https://theconversation.com/ukraine-invasion-putins-conflict-is-showcasing-a-new-age-for-war-reporting-178572