#4 Casemiro: Real Madrid to Manchester United (£51m) 
The pursuit of De Jong did not end well, as the Dutchman decided to stay in Barcelona. Manchester United needed a defensive midfielder who could take the ball forwards discreetly while acting as an extra defensive pair.
As the transfer window closed, United voiced interest in Real Madrid midfielder Casemiro, who could offer a short-term solution. However, it raised eyebrows since it was one of the most expensive signings.
But the Brazilian as a holding midfielder can provide United with the equilibrium and stability that Fred and McTominay lacked.
#3 Alexander Isak: Real Sociedad to Newcastle United (£59m)
The Magpies have made a stately singing, and Isak, who is only in his twenties, has the potential to make a considerable impact for Newcastle.
The Premier League club is backed by one of the wealthiest owners, so the club's spending spree was unsurprising. In his Premier League debut at Anfield, the Swede already has a goal to his name.
#2 Darwin Nunez: Benfica to Liverpool (£64.3m)
When Benfica played Liverpool in the Champions League, the Uruguayan impressed Klopp with his finishing, prompting a move to Liverpool. The 22-year-old is a deadly out-and-out striker who can finish in the box and is also good in the air.
Nunez performed admirably in both the Community Shield and his Premier League debut. If he maintains his current form, he has the potential to become the Reds' undisputed star.
#1 Antony: Ajax to Manchester United (£85.6m) 
It was not an easy signing for Manchester United, as they made several bids to land the Brazilian Winger at Old Trafford, but none of them enticed Ajax, and Antony indicated his desire to join Man United, which resulted in the 22-year-old missing training and being unhappy with the way they were treating his transfer situation.
However, United's last offer of 95 million euros stimulated Ajax to accept the offer leading to Winger to join Manchester United, and he is now reunited with his former manager. His transfer to United is now second-most expensive in club history, trailing only Paul Pogba. 