Two teams that have completely changed their outlook are trying to reset the order of the Premier League in the 2022-23 season. Yes, we are talking about Arsenal and Tottenham Hotspur. The clubs have had a different approach in their transfer windows but are eyeing the same prize. The most coveted English Premier League title is the target.
The resurgence of the clubs are due to their defenders. One club has Cristian Romero who gained the confidence of Tottenham Hotspur whereas one club has seen the resurgence of William Saliba. This leads us to the question, who is a better defender? William Saliba or Cristian Romero? Let’s break it down!
William Saliba started his senior football career in 2018/19 whereas Cristian Romero started in2016/17 at the age of 18. Since then, both have played for multiple clubs across Europe. Cristian Romero has featured for the likes of Belgrano, Genoa, Atalanta and Tottenham Hotspur
whereas Saliba has featured for St.Etienne, Nice, Arsenal and Marseille.
Deep dive into the stats:
Cristian Romero has played 128 games in his career and has started 124 games. His pass completion rate stands at 87.5% and completes 0.5 dribbles per game. When it comes to thedefensive attributes, Cristian Romero has 3.42 tackles per 90 apart from 2.84 interceptions per 90. He never shies away from taking the bullet as he accounts for 2.22 blocks per 90.
On the other hand, William Saliba has played 90 games in his career spanning four seasons. The young and talented French central defender has a pass completion rate of 93.4% with 0.58
dribbles per game.
On the defensive attributes, the player accounts for 1.64 tackles per 90 with 2.31 interceptions per game. He accounts for 1.33 blocks per 90.
When compared between two defenders, Cristian Romero is better aerially as well as hison-ground clearances are better compared to Saliba. This can be attributed to his experience but Saliba is a better passer of the ball. We have an entertaining rivalry in the league in the
future.
(Stats via fbref)