Manchester United Football Club, over the last decade has seen a lot of changes happening. Be it behind the scenes, off the field or on it.
Another change of figure at the manager's chair has come to the supporters as a sign of positivity around a dire situation and miserable end to the season. Erik ten Hag from Netherlands, the ex Ajax boss has taken over the coaching duties for the Mancunian club.
His arrival means a lot of targets from the Dutch league or his former players will be targetted by the club especially in the midfield area, then an attacker and then the defensive side including the fullback position.
Frenkie de Jong of Barcelona, a very highly rated midfielder who is young is likely to be the first incoming to mark open the Ten Hag era. As we spoke, it is a deal happening due to the financial situation at the Catalonia club and then how much Erik admires him, so good that he defines de Jong's role to be the centre of his project. Alternative to Frenkie or maybe a midfield duo with Wolves' Ruben Neves can be seen happening. Ibrahim Sangaré of PSV Eindhoven & N'golo Kante of Chelsea are also likely, players with the profile that is much needed and a role that seems to be forgotten about by the club all in all since a long time now.
Another Dutchman in Jurrien Timber, the Ajax centre half is looked after to resolve the defensive situation at Manchester United. A young, versatile player with certainly definite defensive traits could be a solid addition to Ten Hag's new project. One of Pau Torres, Sven Botman and Alessandro Bastoni are options in the defense department who might be seen coming through the door at Old Trafford.
Forwards being sorted out included Darwin Nunez of Benfica who is all set to join arch rivals Liverpool in a record breaking deal for the Anfield club. Gianluca Scamacca of Sassuolo, Martin Terrier of Rennes, Antony another of the manager's former players and Sasa Kalajdzic of VFB Stuttgart are followed closely to fulfill the role of a goalscorer.