Renowned for his soft-spoken and soothing narration, Sir David Attenborough can keep you interested in any nature and wildlife subject.

Fortunately, the naturalist has made plenty of documentary films that provide effective and academic snapshots of some of the biggest environmental issues at hand, as well as brighter features depicting the rich lives of wildlife animals.

Here, are some of his best works to watch on this  WWD:

1. David Attenborough: A Life on Our Planet (2020)

In what David Attenborough calls his “witness statement” for the environment, A Life on Our Planet guides viewers through his 60-year career and demonstrates the devastating changes our planet has experienced in his lifetime. Originally released on Netflix in 2020, the 85-minute documentary presents some pretty grim predictions for the future.

2. Life of Birds (1998)

Most of us have probably seen amusing footage of male exotic birds performing quirky dances and mating rituals, but for many in the 90s, The Life of Birds introduced audiences to the different species of exotic birds and their ways of life.

3. Blue Planet (2001)

Often described as the first-ever comprehensive series on the natural history of the world’s oceans, The Blue Planet consists of eight 50-minute episodes examining the many wonderful and complex facets of the marine environment and life in it.


4. Extinction: The Facts (2020)

If you have to watch one film about the state of the world’s endangered species and biodiversity loss, make it this one. Extinction: The Facts, originally aired on BBC in September 2020, depicts how the world is accelerating the sixth mass extinction.

5. Planet Earth(2006)

Another mammoth of a documentary series, Planet Earth took five years to film across 64 countries and was the most expensive nature documentary series to be commissioned by the BBC at the time. The pi series offers a beautifully shot yet detailed examination of the different biomes and habitats of the natural world, accompanied by spectacular music.

6. Dynasties (2008)

Dynasties offer a comprehensive study into the behaviours and lifestyle of five vulnerable or endangered species: chimpanzee, emperor penguin, lion, tiger and African wild dog. One of the lesser-known but worth watching.

Reference: earth.org