Covid have impacted our lives in various ways. Be it being closed in the four walls, getting affected with the virus and the PTSD that families undergo post covid effects are still prevalent. 

With a new study that was based on the family members of those affected by covid and was hospitalised in the intensive care unit, have been showing symptoms of post traumatic stress disorder (PTSD). 

The study is taken forward by Dr. Timothy Amass, an assistant professor at the University of Colorado School of Medicine, observed the families of patients at 12 hospitals in Colorado, Washington, Louisiana, New York, and Massachusetts. 

The patients who were the part of the research were admitted in the ICU with the requirements of increased oxygen and for a Covid 19 diagnosis during February 1 and July 31, 2020. 

The experts assessed 330 family members of the patients in the ICU. 

Pre pandemic period the researchers said that the symptoms of PTSD was approximately at 30 percent of family members of ICU patients. 

In the study, the family members were said to have PTSD after three to four months their loved ones were admitted in the ICU. 

The study came to a conclusion that the family members of those who were affected with covid 19 and who were admitted in the ICU was that, “significant symptoms of PTSD at 3 and 6 months, more than has been seen in pre-pandemic populations.” 

The researchers stated, “The implications of these findings suggest that visitation restrictions may inadvertently generate a secondary public health crisis through an epidemic of stress-related disorders among family members of ICU patients." 

“Furthermore, these data may have relevance beyond the COVID-19 pandemic because many family members are unable to visit their loved ones during an ICU stay because of other common barriers,” they added. 

“Additional research is needed to explore opportunities to improve family members’ experiences when they cannot be present while their loved one is admitted to the ICU and to determine the degree to which these symptoms persist and for how long.” 

Sources - https://www.healthline.com/health-news/ptsd-common-among-family-members-of-people-in-icu-with-covid-19#Reactions-to-the-research