As apprehended by experts, Russia started flooding the social media with loads of disinformation on military movements in Ukraine when its troops started advancing in Ukraine. But its mass disinformation campaign has been considerably thwarted by Ukraine, supported by NATO countries, well prepared to combat the Russian strategy, previously applied during its Crimea invasion in 2014. 

Spreading misleading information with claims and counter-claims by an invading army during war is an ancient tactic. But Russia’s intelligence sharpened this disinformation machinery for nearly two decades with its state-supported hacker groups. According to New Scientist, this is just the modern version of Russia's military doctrine maskirovka, or altering the perception of reality and sowing confusion in the enemy.

The primary aim of this strategy is to depict Ukraine as the aggressor by spreading fake videos and deceptive news via social media platforms to camouflage the reality on the battle-front. Fake information on Ukraine's chemical weapon factories and human rights violations were propagated. The disinformation also targets Ukrainian people by amplifying threats and sending false messages that their President has escaped to safety leaving them to fend for themselves. He was also portrayed as a drug addict, Russia-phobic and a crony of Western countries. Fake messages about breakdown of public services – such as malfunctioning ATMs – were shared to demoralise them. Ukrainian soldiers also found phony text messages asking them to surrender or pull down the current government.

To counter rumour mills, Ukraine’s President Volodymyr Zelensky posted a video filmed at his office defiantly saying: We’re all here. We are in Kyiv. We defend Ukraine. He stood by his military defending the independence of his nation. The Ukrainian government is also constantly countering the misinformation in the social media, shooting down rumours and false news. They have been asked not to propagate unverified news.

Much of the fake information is spreading through social platforms like Telegram and Tik-Tok, since US-based social media giants like Facebook have introduced a strict fact-check methodology to bust false news. 

READ MORE:

https://www.euronews.com/next/2022/02/25/the-disinformation-war-the-falsehoods-about-the-ukraine-invasion-and-how-to-stop-them-spre

https://time.com/6151578/russia-disinformation-ukraine-social-media/

https://www.newscientist.com/article/2309713-is-russia-winning-the-disinformation-war-in-ukraine/