 Listening to Faith No More for a long while now, it can’t be stressed enough that the band is criminally underrated and overlooked. But their importance in the development of heavy metal post 90s simply cannot be denied. 
An avant garde metal band, Faith No More’s sound is a mix of various elements ranging from heavy metal, thrash metal, progressive rock, funk rock, alternative metal, polka, jazz, R&B and hip hop, the band can switch between genres in an instant, going from metal to jazz in the blink of an eye.
The band is creatively diverse and original in a way that most can’t even comprehend, and they know how to keep things extremely interesting by balancing out the heaviness, the funkiness and the groove, while all their albums have a different feeling than the other.
‘The Real Thing’ is way more different than ‘Angel Dust’ which in turn feels very different from ‘King for a Day.....Fool for a Lifetime’, the guys are literally scattered all over the place.
One of the most influential bands of all time, while Faith No More themselves have little to do with it and Mike Patton has made his distaste for the genre more than clear, nu metal would indeed not exist were it not for them. But their influence is well beyond just that. Hell, even the likes of Nirvana, Sepultura, Alice In Chains, Machine Head and Metallica have acknowledged Faith No More’s influence on them.
Faith No More’ sound in one way can be summed in what would happen if The Velvet Undergound, Genesis, Black Sabbath, Diamond Head, Helmet, Rage Against The Machine, Linkin Park and Red Hot Chilli Peppers all merged together. Sounds crazy right? Well, they also sound crazy so it is fair.
Unusual, over the top, experimental and eclectic they have it all which is enough to attract listeners as well as drive them away. Whether it is the vocals or the musicianship and songwriting, Faith No More is one crazy awesome group no matter how much progressive music you listen to. Wanna try getting into them? Try listening to ‘Epic’ or ‘Midlife Crisis’ you will be hooked.