The two famous and dependable wingers of Liverpool will try to have their last say in the Africa Cup of Nations final on Sunday. Senegal's joyous ride in the contest continued while Egypt's pragmatism delivered them a world full of goods yet again in the two hotly contested semifinals of the tournament. 


Sadio Mane scored a goal and assisted one in Senegal's 3-1 win over surprise package Burkina Faso to make it to their third final of the AFCON and for the consecutive time. Coach Kamou Malo's team are battling with the off-field struggle of Burkina going through a  political coup but their motivation was not enough to get them off the line. Nevertheless, their valiant display in beating the likes of Gabon and Tunisia to reach this stage of the competition will provide some kind of joyous moment for their people. 


They held Senegal in the first half of the semi-final too. Center back Abdou Diallo finally broke the deadlock twenty minutes from time before his PSG teammate Idrissa Gueye managed to slot into an empty net after a brilliant run from Mane on the left. The Stallions responded through Ibrahim Toure's finish past a stranded Edouard Mendy, however, Sadio's dink over the keeper at the very end set Senegal fans wild. 


The eyeballs turned to the second final the next day in the ill-fated stadium in Olembe for African football powerhouses clash between host Cameroon and Egypt. There was a lot of storyline building up to the contest with Egypt's coach Carlos Queiroz calling out  Cameroon football president Samuel Eto'o for his comments before the game while top scorer Vincent Aboubakar denied conversation of Mo Salah being the best player presently. 


It was the Pharoah's talisman who had the last laugh though and he left thanking his goalkeeper Gabaski for it with the latter's heroic saves putting Egypt into their ninth AFCON final. They won the contest 3-1 on penalties. Aboubakar and onlooking Eto'o's head dropped while red-carded Carlos returned to the pitch to celebrate with his players.