On Tuesday, the Taliban-led government gave its approval for a railway link between Afghanistan and Pakistan, greenlighting rail links between the cities of Peshawar and Kabul and Peshawar and Jalalabad.
Approval for a rail link with Uzbekistan was also given. In addition, during the meeting, the cabinet of the new government also approved a rail link between Jalalabad and the capital Kabul.
The cabinet meeting was presided by Taliban Prime Minister Mullah Muhammad Hassan Akhund.
During the first phase, feasibility studies and surveys would be conducted, and the findings of the first phase would be shared with higher officials during the second phase of the project.
The cabinet meeting also approved a change in police and armed forces uniforms.
The meeting of the five countries — Pakistan, Afghanistan, Russia, Uzbekistan, and Kazakhstan —was held last month to discuss the railway network between the states.
Using advanced technology, Russia would carry out a project survey and prepare feasibility reports while other countries will construct railway tracks on their respective territories, he added.
"Pakistan during previous the Afghan government had decided to extend the railway track to Jalalabad, but due to security reason it was scrapped, but now as the situation has improved we would extend the track till Mazar-e-Sharif with the financial backing of donors," the senior official added.
The feasibility reports of the railway routes are to be completed in the next four to three months while two sites for transshipments have been allocated at Torkham border and Jalalabad, he added.
"The IITMS [International Institute for Transshipment Services] to be constructed with mutual cooperation of Pakistan and Afghanistan, that would boost the trade volume between the member's states and total length of the track would be 800km till Mazar-e-Sharif."
The project is not part of the China Pakistan Economic Corridor (CPEC), but it's a joint initiative of the five countries to strengthen economic cooperation, he added.