An article in BMJ talks about the needed for talking about anal sex from a clinicians perspective. 
Pointing out and rightly so that clinicians “reluctance to discuss possible harms is letting down a generation of women”. 

Anal intercourse is becoming more common among heterosexual couples, however medical professionals are still reluctant to discuss the same with female clients. Anal sec is no longer considered an extreme behaviour, couples indulge and even enjoy if done in a mutually agreed way. In popular culture it’s now being portrayed as a prized and pleasurable experience. 
However lack of support from medical fraternity is causing distress among females who may be want to discuss it as a genuine medical concern. We have to keep reminding our selves that there is nothing homophobic about spreading awareness about the same . It’s a known fact that men can handle anal sex better than women and the possibility of damage is more for women than men. 
Read on the BMJ article to know what the concerns are and how to address them. 
Sharing experts and the link .

In Britain, the National Survey of Sexual Attitudes and Lifestyle shows participation in heterosexual anal intercourse among 16 to 24 year olds rose from 12.5% to 28.5% over the past few decades. Similar trends are seen in the US, where 30-44% of men and women report experience of anal sex.
Individual motivation varies. Young women cite pleasure, curiosity, pleasing male partners, and coercion as factors. Up to 25% of women with experience of anal sex report they have been pressured into it at least once.
Health risks
Anal intercourse is considered a risky sexual behaviour because of its association with alcohol, drug use, and multiple sex partners. But it is also associated with specific health concerns. The absence of vaginal secretions, increased traumatic abrasions, and less common use of condoms increase the risk of sexually transmitted disease and anal malignancy. Anal pain, bleeding, and fissures also occur as a result of anal intercourse.
Increased rates of faecal incontinence and anal sphincter injury have been reported in women. 
Read more
https://www.bmj.com/content/378/bmj.o1975