The former head of UNAMA left the country on Thursday with a statement saying goodbye to the people of Afghanistan.

"The best hope lies in an interactive strategy that shows the ruling authorities that a system that ignores women, minorities and talented individuals will not last," Debrah Lyons said in a statement.

Debrah Lyons has served as Special Representative of the Secretary-General of the United Nations (UNAMA) in Afghanistan since its inception in 1999.

In recent days, Ms. Lyons has come under widespread criticism from civil society and human rights activists in Afghanistan for her policies against the Taliban.

UNAMA has remained silent in recent months amid widespread reports of killings of civilians and former government employees.

The former UNAMA president said in a farewell statement that She believed there was a possibility of "an inclusive and Islamic system" in Afghanistan at the same time.

Debrah Lynes says her heart "breaks especially for the millions of Afghan girls who have been denied the right to education."

"Instead of using the talents of Afghan women to rebuild society, many are being told to stay home," the message said.

The head of UNAMA described the situation as "somewhat more frightening than before".

"As a woman, it's very painful for her to leave her Afghan sisters in the situation they are in," she said.

Afghanistan underwent major changes during Ms. Lyons's mission. During major developments such as Taliban talks with Afghan government representatives in Qatar, the withdrawal of international troops, the fall of the Afghan government to the Taliban, and the post-government chaos in Afghanistan, Lions led UNAMA.

As the highest-ranking UN official in Afghanistan, She has met with Taliban officials more than any other Western official.
In March, the Security Council extended UNAMA's mandate for another year.

The former UN envoy says UNAMA will remain a credible observer and reporter on events on the ground and a reliable link between the Afghan people, the authorities and the international community.

According to him, in this way, this institution will continue to work as a symbol so that the people of Afghanistan are not left alone by the world.