Qatar’s stock market is sensitive to FIFA announcements. The analysis of the movement in the stock returns and market returns showed that FIFA announcements affected the stock market performance. InvestoWWrs and portfolio managers reacted to the announcement involving the market index. The bullish stock market trend reflects investors’ confidence in companies and the overall economy. The positive news influences the decisions of investors positively. FIFA announcements bullish stock prices, reflecting investors’ optimistic expiration (AlRefai & Eissa, 2017).
The stock market index’s performance is considered the barometer to measure economic growth. The movement in the stock prices and indices reflects the confidence of investors and consumers in the economy. Consumer and investor confidence drives growth, positively affecting expectations and prices. Many theories in behavioral finance explain that the stock price is affected by investors’ expectations, sentiments, and confidence. The feelings and emotions of investors are expected by the news, information, and events that affect stock prices. FIFA 2022 is a historic and prestigious tournament hosted by Qatar. The event is expected to significantly and positively impact the exchange performance (AlRefai & Eissa, 2017).
FIFA 2022 is expected to contribute $17bn to Qatar’s economy. Many sectors of the economy will benefit from the tournament. Transportation, hospitality, banking, insurance, and many other industries will experience a boost in demand (Siddiqui, 2022). Investors react positively to increasing the stock price when the market outlook of an enterprise is optimistic. The economic impact of FIFA positively affected investors’ expectations about companies’ financial performance.
Qatar is expected to outperform other countries in the GCC due to FIFA 2022. The economic growth of Qatar will beat the United Arab Emirates, Saudi Arabia, Kuwait, Bahrain, and Oman.
The Initial Public Offerings (IPO) are expected to be fully subscribed due to optimistic forecasts and expectations about the Qatari economy. Qatar’s stock market will outperform its historic performance in 2022. The prices of stocks are already soaring, and most of the stocks are trading at a premium (Elbahrawy, 2021).
The economic impact of FIFA is uneven for different sectors and industries. 
Read more
https://m.thepeninsulaqatar.com/article/19/09/2022/how-will-fifa-2022-impact-qatar-stock-exchange