While cancer deaths tend to get more attention, heart disease is still the leading cause of premature death in the United States, and it’s a health problem that affects both men and women. The good news is that you can lower your risk of cardiovascular disease (heart disease and stroke) by modifying your lifestyle habits. Let’s look at some simple habits that can lower your risk of cardiovascular disease or heart attack. 
1 Eat fish twice a week ; 
Fish is an excellent source of protein, omega-3 fatty acids, and many vitamins and minerals. According to the Mayo Clinic, “Eating at least two servings of fish a week could reduce the risk of heart disease.” They recommend consuming fatty fish, like wild-caught salmon, twice per week. However, it’s important to avoid fish high in mercury: swordfish; shark; king mackerel; tilefish (golden bass); bigeye tuna; marlin; orange roughy; and bluefish.
2 Limit saturated fats and trans fats ; 
Saturated fats are found in animal products, including red meat and dairy, while trans fats are man-made fats created when manufacturers add hydrogen to vegetable oil. Both saturated fats and trans fats raise the risk of heart disease and stroke by altering blood lipid levels.
3 Choose healthy monounsaturated fats ; 
Monounsaturated fats are abundant in olive oil, canola oil, peanut oil, and avocados. These fats reduce “bad” LDL cholesterol levels and increase “good” HDL cholesterol levels. They’re considered “good” fats because they help lower the risk of heart disease. Monounsaturated  fats help promote a healthy heart by reducing bad LDL cholesterol levels and increasing good HDL cholesterol levels. 
4 Choose whole grains over refined grains ; 
Whole grains are an excellent source of fiber and can help you feel full for longer. They’re also good sources of B vitamins, important for energy metabolism and heart health. Avoid refined grains, like white bread and white flour. To make refined grains, manufacturers strip whole grains of their fiber and nutrients. The lack of fiber leads to blood sugar spikes that aren’t healthy for your heart.
Read more - https://scitechdaily.com/7-daily-habits-for-a-healthier-heart/