The North Queensland Cowboys have recorded four consecutive wins for the first time in five years after a comprehensive second-half performance powered them to a 36-16 victory over Newcastle.

In Saturday's earlier matches, the Sydney Roosters defeated Gold Coast 44-16 in Mackay, while Manly downed Wests Tigers 36-22 at Brookvale Oval.

Down 16-12 at half-time, the Cowboys scored four unanswered tries in the second term in Townsville.

Two of the tries came in the space of three minutes soon after the break, with Murray Taulagi and Valentine Holmes crossing the stripe.

A Chad Townsend kick in the 58th minute was spilled by the Knights, with Cowboys young gun Jeremiah Nanai the beneficiary as he pounced and stepped two defenders to score the home side's fifth try of the match.

Townsend then found a flying Heilum Luki, who scored with six minutes to play as the Cowboys handed an improved Knights outfit their seventh consecutive loss.

Humiliated 50-2 by the Melbourne Storm last week, the Knights showed resolve to lead at half-time, thanks largely to their halves Tex Hoy and Phoenix Crossland and skipper Kalyn Ponga.

Fullback Ponga had only three runs for 54 metres in the half but his involvement in the line gave his forwards the go-forward that had North Queensland's defence stretched from end to end.

Completing at 89 per cent through 40 minutes the Knights found success in attack through six first-half offloads.

The Cowboys struck two minutes into the match when Tom Dearden scored the opening try.

Newcastle fired back when Dominic Young scored on an overlap in the 10th minute.

A barnstorming run by Jason Taumalolo in the 25th minute put the Cowboys just metres shy of the try line, before winger Kyle Feldt crossed for his fourth try in three matches.

But Newcastle then struck twice with a crafty Ponga grubber off the upright landing perfectly for Jacob Saifiti to score.

With 90 seconds left in the half some poor defensive discipline by the hosts gifted Newcastle deep territory and Hoy stepped two defenders before offloading to Chris Randall who scored.