Italian cuisine is a rich array of flavorful dishes from across the Mediterranean country in southern Europe. Eating an Italian meal is a ritual: a gathering of food, wine, and family. In Italy, culinary traditions are like storytelling, passed down from one generation to the next.

Italian cuisine consists of traditional meals and ingredients that people consume in Italy. While pasta, sauces, and cheeses are staples across the country, every region has its own unique ingredients and dishes that have contributed to the influence of Italian cuisine.

While the ruling classes in Ancient Rome had feasts of roasted game, fish, wine, and exotic foods, peasants ate what we now call a Mediterranean diet: wine, bread, olive oil, cheese, and seasonal vegetables. After the fall of the Roman Empire, Italy’s regions created their own culinary identities that still exist today. Think of risotto in Milan, pizza in Naples, and seafood in Sardinia. Today, Italian restaurants, pizzerias, and trattorias featuring classic Italian fare can be found in almost every country.

These 12 essential ingredients create the foundation of Italian cuisine.

Extra virgin olive oil. While olive oil is often used in cooking, higher quality extra virgin olive oil is used as a garnish to add a peppery flavor. It is also used as a dip for Italian bread like focaccia or drizzled over salad. Learn more about olive oil in our complete guide.

Balsamic vinegar. True balsamic vinegar is produced in the Italian region of Modena or Emilia-Romagna. This dark, well-aged vinegar is used in marinades and dressings. Learn more about vinegar in our complete guide.

Garlic. Garlic is one of the most popular ingredients throughout the country, especially sautéed in olive oil to create a flavorful cooking base. Learn more about cooking with garlic here.

Pasta. Pasta is a mix of flour, eggs, olive oil, water, and salt. There are many varieties based on the shape and the region they’re from. Popular types include spaghetti (long, thin strands of pasta); penne (tube shapes from Liguria); tagliatelle (thin pasta ribbons from Bologna); fettuccine (long, flat pasta from Rome); and pappardelle (flat, wide pasta ribbons from Tuscany).

To be continued......