Virtual reality, autonomous weapons and the future of war: military tech startup Anduril comes to Australia
Earlier this month, posters started going up around Sydney advertising an event called “In the Ops Room, with Palmer Luckey”. Rather than an album launch or standup gig, this turned out to be a free talk given last week by the chief executive of a high-tech US defence company called Anduril.
The company has set up an Australian arm, and Luckey is in town to entice “brilliant technologists in military engineering” to sign on.
Anduril makes a software system called Lattice, an “autonomous sensemaking and command & control platform” with a strong surveillance focus which is used on the US–Mexico border. The company also produces flying drones and has a deal to produce three robotic submarines for Australia, with capabilities for surveillance, reconnaissance, and warfare.
The PR splash is unusual from the normally secretive world of military technology. But Luckey’s talk opened a window onto the future as seen by a company “transforming US & allied military capabilities with advanced technology”.
From Oculus to Anduril
a poster advertising the Luckey talk, pasted to an electricity box on a street in inner Sydney
One of the posters advertising the Anduril talk in Sydney. Photo by Julia Scott-Stevenson
Unlike most defence tech moguls, Luckey got his start in the world of immersive tech and gaming.
While at college, the Anduril founder had a brief stint at a military-affiliated mixed reality research lab at the University of Southern California, then set up his own virtual reality headset company called Oculus VR. In 2014, at the age of 21, Luckey sold Oculus to Facebook for US$2 billion.
In 2017 Luckey was fired by Facebook for reasons that were never made public. According to some reports, the issue was Luckey’s support for the presidential campaign of Donald Trump.
Luckey’s next move, with backing from right-wing venture capitalist Peter Thiel’s Founder’s Fund, was to set up Anduril.
Read more: https://theconversation.com/virtual-reality-autonomous-weapons-and-the-future-of-war-military-tech-startup-anduril-comes-to-australia-188983