How much does caffeine improve performance, exactly? The level of athletic performance improvement shown in scientific studies is on average between 1-3 percent, depending on the dose of caffeine and the intended physical activity. Doesn’t sound like much? Consider an elite athletic competition, such as the Olympics - when you are competing in elite endurance-type competitions, 3% can often mean the difference between the top five placements.
Because of this, it is extremely common for professional athletes to include caffeine in their training and competition regimes.
The World Anti-Doping Agency (WADA) does not currently list caffeine as a banned substance. WADA did have caffeine on its list for three decades (specifically from 1984 – 2004), during which time, athletes could be thrown out of competition if their urine contained more than 12 micrograms per milliliter of caffeine. 
WADA ended up removing caffeine from the banned list because it decided that performance enhancing doses were almost indistinguishable from what some people would consider “normal consumption”. Caffeine is just so ubiquitous in the world and especially the athletic community that they did not want to punish athletes for something that many would consider as ordinary daily consumption. 
An issue that complicates this was that monitoring and testing for caffeine is not precise because the rate of metabolism changes per person. Thus, the international Olympic Committee is not currently prohibiting caffeine.
Therefore, since 2004, athletes have been able to freely sip coffee or consume caffeine by other methods, such as energy drinks or caffeine pills. After caffeine was dropped from the list, during the following four years caffeine was consistently found in approximately 74% of monitored athletes, illustrating that the use of caffeine is widespread in athletic populations. Today it is still monitored, only for tracking purposes.
The US National Collegiate Athletic Association (NCAA) still includes caffeine on their 2018-19 list of banned drugs, making it one of the few organizations to still limit caffeine use in athletic competitions. 
