1. BUNGEOPPANG 붕어빵 (FISH-SHAPED BREAD WITH SWEET RED BEAN)
Sure to be a hit with the kids, Bungeoppang is made by baking a pancake-like batter in a fish-shaped mold with sweet red bean filling in the middle. The dough is slightly crispy on the outside and chewy and spongy on the inside with a burst of sweetness from the red beans.

2. HOTTEOK 호떡 (SWEET PANCAKE)
Korean dessert pancake with a surprise! The moment you bite into this pancake, a hot cinnamony syrup oozes into your mouth. But be careful! It CAN BE HOT!! Hotteok has a delicious texture, from the chewy dough with a fried crispness on the outside to the chopped walnuts in the syrup, that will make you keep wanting more.

3. SWEET RICE MINI BUNDT CAKE
Naturally gluten-free, this sweet rice mini bundt cake recipe is a spin-off of my original Tteokppang recipe, which is an oven-baked Korean fusion dessert. What makes this cake unique is the use of sweet rice flour instead of wheat flour, and this recipe features rice flour that was freshly milled at home.

4. BINGSU 빙수 (SHAVED ICE)
Probably the most well known of all Korean desserts outside of Korea, Bingsu or Korean shaved ice dessert will cool you down like no other. While red beans, misugaru (roasted multigrain powder), and sweetened condensed milk are the classic toppings in this Korean shaved ice dessert, you can add different toppings of your choice like watermelon. Just drizzle it with your favorite syrup to bring them all together. This is a refreshing and tasty dessert for hot, summer days!

5. DALGONA 달고나 (SPONGE CANDY)
This fun Korean street food will bring out the kid in you! All you need is three ingredients to produce a lightly crunchy yet melt-in-your-mouth candy with a toasty caramel flavor. It is unbelievably easy to make.

6. MAKGEOLLI ICE CREAM
This elegant ice cream is light (somewhere between sorbet and full creamy ice cream) and mildly sweet with a hint of the delicate sour flavor of Korean rice wine, Makgeolli. And you don’t need an ice cream machine to make it!