In his speech, Mr Wickremesinghe said Sri Lanka must move towards long term solutions to set the economy right.

He said the debt restructuring plan is in its final stages of being prepared and added that the economic restructuring plan would be outlined in the interim budget to be presented soon

Sri Lanka seeks a 4-year programme with the IMF. The work to finalise the debt restructuring plan is ongoing and would be presented soon to the IMF.

Mr Wickremesinghe said the Sri Lankan economy was hit by opposition to foreign investment projects.

"When we tried to develop the oil tank complex in Trincomalee together with India, it was stated that it would be a sell out to India, and the project was halted. If at that time we were allowed to develop the oil tank complex, today people would not have to spend many days in queues for fuel,” he said.

Mr Wickremesinghe said that he would establish an office to protect the peaceful protesters and support them.

"I will not allow any kind of prejudice to the peaceful activists," he said, while noting that some groups are trying to spread propaganda through social media that he is hunting down the protesters, which is not true.

He said he will not allow violence and terrorism. However, I will protect non-violence and democracy, he said. "The peaceful struggle is a fundamental right. I accept those rights," he asserted.

He said all countries are Sri Lanka's friends. "We have no enemies. We do not belong to any group".

Mr Wickremesinghe was elected President by the lawmakers on July 20 - the first such occasion since 1978. The 73-year-old President was appointed for the rest of the term of Gotabaya Rajapaksa who fled the country and resigned on July 13 in the face of a popular uprising against his government for mismanaging the island nation's economy. The worst economic crisis since 1948 has led to severe shortages of fuel and other essentials.

Sri Lanka has seen months of mass unrest over its worst economic crisis, with the government declaring bankruptcy in mid-April by refusing to honour its international debt.