Natural Emerald—The Gemstone
of Communicative Mercury continues...

Emerald with the fresh lively green color is one of the most attractive gemstones. Not only because of its color but also because it counts among the Big Three in the world of coloured gemstones—rubies, sapphires and emeralds. 

And if one goes by the parameters for gauging value of gemstones, there is another feather in its cap by virtue of being the gemstone of Planet Mercury and being used extensively in Planetary Gem Therapy to harness the energies of Mercury that reside in emeralds.

Vedic astrology strongly recommends using a Mercury talisman - natural emerald ring or an emerald pendant to get the best from favourably placed Mercury in the horoscope. In the West, Emerald is the birthstone for May.

Listed here are the top ten benefits of wearing an emerald gemstone:

1. Wearing an emerald, also known as panna or zammrud brings in intellectual progress. Natural intelligence and intellect is the domain of Planet Mercury and enhancing this planets power brings in better understanding of life, a balanced perspective and better ability to grasp deeper subjects too.

2. The individual wearing an emerald can visibly see a spurt in creativity, artistic talents, linguistic skills and ability to ideate/innovate better.

3. Wearing an emerald can give a huge edge in relation to the communication skills. There is a remarkably better, clearer and lucid style of communication and the individual is able to express oneself with aplomb and confidence.

4. Even in medical astrology, there are elaborated several benefits of wearing 
an emerald gem. It is a gemstone that can help with speech difficulties, respiratory troubles, allergies and nervous disorders.

5. Natural and treatment free emerald is a great therapeutic gemstone for individuals facing trouble with ability to concentrate or focus. High entropy, restless people are able to bring in a relatively large amount of stability and focus by wearing an emerald.

To be continued...