Brighton vs Manchester United


Brighton humbled mighty Manchester United at their home for 4 goals to nil. The thrashing win was colored by beautiful goals. Cucurella and Caicedo scored their first ever goals for the team. This was Brighton's biggest ever victory in the top league, which came in their 356th match. Manchester United, with just one match left to play, are going to end the season with lowest ever points in their Premier league history - if they win 61, now 58 points. Grob and Trossard were other goal scorers for the Seagulls. Brighton are at 9th and Manchester United at 6th in the points table, with Brighton winning 4 of their last 6 matches. 



Liverpool vs Tottenham Hotspur


Liverpool lost 2 vital points in their title race, which could end their hopes. Now they have to wait and see if Manchester City lose or draw in any of the remaining 4 games- which is possible as they are against Newcastle, Wolves, West Ham and Aston Villa. 


Tottenham went up in the 56th minute after Son scoring his 20th goal of the season. Goal came from a well constructed move down from the goalkeeper, into the midfield, then to Kane in front of the box, laying it off to left where Sessegnon received and crossed for a freely positioned Son. 


Liverpool levelled it up with a deflected long range shot from Diaz in the 74th minute. 



Chelsea vs Wolverhampton


The Blues were shaky in the last few games and conceded two late goals to give away valuable points at home. Chelsea were comfortably leading till 78th minute for 2 Lukaku goals, and Wolves changed the mode of their play with Trincao coming in as a substitute. They scored their first in the 79th minute, an excellent shot from just outside the box by Trincao after a counter attack. Then they broke Chelsea's heart in front of their new owner Todd Boehly in the 90+7' min, captain Coady headed them home. 


Chelsea are at 3rd with 67 points and Arsenal are just behind them with 63 points. Tottenham with the draw against Liverpool are at 5th with 62 points. 