Today, the President of the United States and the Prime Minister of the State of Israel reaffirm their commitment to elevating the strategic partnership between the countries to new heights by launching the new Strategic High-Level Dialogue on Technology, tasked with establishing a U.S.-Israel technological partnership on critical and emerging technologies and solutions to global challenges: pandemic preparedness, climate change, implementation of artificial intelligence, and trusted technology ecosystems. The dialogue will also reinforce existing collaboration mechanisms.

The United States-Israel relationship reflects our shared values and interests and the true friendship between our peoples. We pledge to boost our mutual innovation ecosystems, to deepen bilateral engagements, advance and protect critical and emerging technologies in accordance with our national interests, democratic principles and human rights, and to address geostrategic challenges.

First, we recognize the importance of the technological ties between the United States and Israel, along with other key partners and allies.

Second, we resolve to encourage innovative solutions to global challenges and promote a shared agenda in the international arena.

Third, we will advance and facilitate a high-level bilateral inter-agency dialogue led by the respective national security councils of the United States and Israel to enhance our collaboration on promoting and protecting critical and emerging technologies in areas of global concern:

Pandemic preparedness: exploring cooperative tech R&D ventures, including technology fordisease surveillance and early warning and for rapid medical countermeasure responses.

Trustworthy artificial intelligence: addressing important challenges, such as large scale planning, implementation and logistical challenges through multidimensional optimization by means of cutting-edge AI in the fields of transportation, medicine and agriculture. This includes discussing evaluation and measurement tools for trustworthy AI, and for risk management and privacy-enhancing technologies.

Technology for addressing climate change: cooperative R&D ventures and/or deploying technologies to drive equitable climate solutions (e.g., water reuse, solid waste management, clean and renewable energy).

Trusted tech ecosystems: exchange information and seek to increase coordination on policies on risk management in our innovation ecosystems, including research security, investment screening, and export controls, as well as on technology investment and protection strategies for critical and emerging technologies.

Read more
https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/07/13/joint-u-s-israel-statement-on-launching-strategic-high-level-dialogue-on-technology/