By Tanzila Shaikh

During the Covid-19, the world majorly shifted to the work-from-home model, allowing people the flexibility to working from the comfort of their home. As the cases started going down and after two years of disruption, things are coming back to normal. With the reopening of offices, in the post-pandemic era, people are seen valuing family time and their emotional and mental well-being. Employees and employers both seem to have met mid-way with the hybrid work model. 

However, a majority of the companies are calling their employees back to the office. As everyone has gotten used to working in the comfort of their homes, are people ready to return? BestMediaInfo.com deep dived to understand the sentiments and to figure out an amicable path going ahead.

An email by Tesla CEO Elon Musk did the rounds on Twitter, in which the employees of Tesla were, without any exceptions, asked to come back to the office and to spend a minimum of 40 hours per week in the professional setting. In the mail, Musk said that he believes that building a company like Tesla will require people to be present on-site. He cited his presence in the factory and asked the senior-level management to showcase their presence as much as they can. 

There are sectors and jobs that require the people to be present in offices, but there are also other vocations in which physical presence is not paramount to the execution.

Shashank Srivastava, Executive Director at Maruti Suzuki India, said, “I believe that person-to-person contact is really important to build a relationship in our industry whether it is with any party (consumers, dealers, employees, etc). There is no substitute for being physically present. However, I think there is another aspect is where companies can save on a lot of costs, there may be many activities that need to require you to work from the home. For e.g., many meetings requiring people to travel from different places or states, and countries. It can happen virtually easily. Going forward, we will see a hybrid model and it is going to stay.”

Read the full story here:- https://bestmediainfo.com/2022/06/the-postpandemic-era-demands-flexibility-hybrid-work-model