On 28 June 2022, the union government amended India’s 11-year-old Forest (Conservation) Rules or FCA to transfer forests to industries without first getting the consent of tribal communities and forest dwellers under a law that gives Adivasis the power to veto projects.
After the news broke, opposition parties, led by the Congress, which promulgated the Forest Rights Act (FRA) in 2006, accused the Modi government of being “at its crony best”, destroying forest rights law and disempowering tribal or Adivasi communities. 
Union environment, forests and climate change minister Bhupender Yadav responded: “No rule or provisions of any act are being diluted. The process has been streamlined for reducing timelines for arrival at the final decision”.
Union tribal affairs minister Arjun Munda accused the Congress party of “trying to mislead the nation by making frivolous and baseless allegations” and said that “at no point, the provisions of FRA 2006 have been diluted”.
But documents and internal files accessed by The Reporters’ Collective reveal the environment ministry had been planning to dilute its responsibility of ensuring tribal rights under the FRA for over two years. 
The FRA requires forest dwellers to provide consent before giving up their land to companies to clear forests. 
New amendments to the forest conservation rules have now made it easier for companies to take over forests, bypassing such consent.
The environment ministry’s internal records reveal it termed its responsibility of ensuring tribal rights as “redundant” and diluted its own role in ensuring these rights. 
Demands made by railways, power, coal, steel and petroleum  ministries and the NITI Aayog found these regulations to be “bottlenecks” slowing down the process of giving licences to companies to cut forests.
The environment ministry did not consult the tribal affairs ministry—the nodal ministry for the FRA—as it changed the rules  in favour of industry . The environment ministry initially wanted to water down the rules further and avoided the topic of tribal rights while drafting the new rules until the law ministry pointed it out.
Read more - https://article-14.com/post/minister-says-new-forest-laws-don-t-dilute-tribal-rights-they-do-and-govt-planned-dilution-since-2019-6327ce7b38a42