The three reasons are:



Liverpool are in a wonderful run of form!

Jurgen Klopp's side have lost just 1 out of their last 29 games in all competitions. Their only loss came against Inter Milan on 9th March 2011. Hence this winning habit would certainly help Liverpool.

Apart from the UEFA Champions League, the Reds are also fighting for the Premier League and the FA Cup title. To add to this, Liverpool have already won the Carabao Cup this season.

With a possible quadruple on the line, we expect Liverpool to give their all as they look to achieve the "impossible". Hence, the Reds will surely walk into the game as the "favourites" on paper.





They don't have to play at the Estadio Santiago Bernabeu! 

Another major advantage for the Reds could be the fact that the UEFA Champions League final is being played at the Stade de France.

Real Madrid have been unstoppable at their home, the Estadio Santiago Bernabeu. Owing to this, Jurgen Klopp and his team may not have to face a "comeback" that has blown PSG, Chelsea, and Manchester City out of the competition. 

The Reds have won against AC Milan, Porto, Atletico Madrid, Inter Milan, Villarreal, and Benfica at their respective stadiums this season. Hence, this gives Liverpool a huge advantage going into the UEFA Champions League final.




Liverpool are arguably the better team!

It is no doubt that the Reds would certainly prefer facing Real Madrid to Manchester City in the UEFA Champions League final. This is due to the fact that Manchester City have a comparatively better squad than Real Madrid. 

Manchester City are currently one of the best sides in the world. Arguably, only Liverpool can somewhat match them in terms of the squad quality. Hence Liverpool would certainly walk in with confidence against Real Madrid on 29th May 2022. 

This would also give Liverpool the chance to exact their revenge for the 2017/18 UEFA Champions League final loss to Real Madrid. Hence it has to be seen how Jurgen Klopp's side performs in the finals this time around. 