Denmark will lift all Covid-19 restrictions within the country, Prime Minister Mette Frederiksen announced in a news conference on Wednesday evening,adding that coronavirus "should no longer be categorized as a socially critical sickness."

"Denmark will be completely open from 1 February," Frederiksen said."Tonight we can start lowering our shoulders and find our smiles again." 

"The pandemic is still here, but with what we know now, we dare to believe that we are through the critical phase," Frederiksen added, highlighting the success of Denmark's vaccination program and booster shots. 

Frederiksen said she expected spring, summer, and early autumn to be "an open Denmark with hugs, parties, and festivals."Then later in autumn and into the winter, the government said it expects another season of increased infections,which may require additional vaccinations.She said the government is not ruling out the possibility that a fourth shot could be necessary for everyone.

Earlier on Wednesday,Denmark’s Minister of Health Magnus Heunicke recommended that some testing upon entry to the country is the only pandemic restriction that should remain. 

Tests for certain people when entering Denmark will primarily apply to those who have not been vaccinated or previously infected,Heunicke said on Wednesday evening.Maintaining that restriction would require the support of a majority in the parliament,and the health minister said he expects an answer from parliament on Friday. 

Danish authorities continue to recommend taking an at-home test before being in contact with groups of people,especially vulnerable people,according to the health minister.PCR tests will continue to be available to the public in order to confirm Covid-19 cases.

National Board of Health Director Søren Brostrøm said that authorities are confident about lifting restrictions due to the high levels of immunity because of widespread vaccination and previous infections,as well as the nature of the Omicron variant,which he said is "completely dominant and less pathogenic."

"We have an enormously high immunity in Denmark. Probably at least 80% of the population from cradle to grave is well-protected,"Brostrøm said, adding that roughly twice as many people in Denmark have been infected with Omicron compared to previous variants.



Source: CNN