By Medha Dutta Yadav

Delhi-based Milan Moudgill, an alumnus of the National Institute of Design, Ahmedabad, undertook the Kailash-Manasarovar project between 2002 and 2007. He describes the project as a photographic journey in the footsteps of Sven Hedin and Swami Pranavananda that revisits how this sacred region in Tibet was brought into geographical knowledge—including the discovery of the sources of the Brahmaputra, Sutlej and the Indus. The project evolved into an exhibition that is on till August 9 at the Visual Arts Gallery and Open Palm Court Gallery, India Habitat Centre, Delhi.

The photographer elaborates on the project, “Tibet of old was always off-limits to outsiders, its forbidding geography zealously guarded. This proved an irresistible challenge to the enterprising Swedish explorer Sven Hedin, who slipped into Tibet in 1906. When he emerged two years later, Hedin had discovered the sources of the Brahmaputra, Sutlej and Indus He became the ‘first white man’ to circumambulate Kailash and sail on the holy lake Manasarovar, and map its bed. Three decades after him, the Indian ascetic Swami Pranavananda arrived in the area and travelled extensively, overlapping with Hedin’s explorations. He challenged the Swede’s ‘discoveries’, especially the sources of the Brahmaputra, Sutlej and Indus.”

These two vastly different visitors and their accounts brought the geography of the sacred Kailash-Manasarovar region into modern view. Moudgill’s project follows both journeys, and through an interplay of archival material, contemporary pictures, and an in-depth examination of the debates that arose, traces the story of how our modern understanding of this area came to be. “I did not start exploring the area and then stumbled on Hedin and Pranavananda’s accounts. Rather, my entire journey has been retracing their journeys. It is through the study of their archival material and the journeys that they made that helped me recreate those steps and what they saw and experienced. My journey is not independent of theirs. It is in their footsteps,” explains the photographer.

Read more
https://www.newsdrum.in/travel/photography-kailash-mansarovar-milan-moudgills-journey-between-then-and-now-71015.html