A year of pandemic restrictions, online learning, limited socialisation with peers has taken a toll on everyone's mental health. 
For the past two years, many states like Arizona, Colorado, Connecticut, Illinois, Maine, Nevada, Oregon, Virginia, Washington, and Kentucky have given a green flag for bills that allows students to miss school for mental health reasons. It is a major step in priritizing mental health providing support. 
Matt Shenker, MEd, a former elementary school counselor who now serves as resident in counseling at Thriveworks, says that, “We’ve spent decades raising our standards of learning, now is the time to raise our standards of care." 
The Importance of Mental Health Days 
At school, while students handle their academics and social lives at some point, it can be difficult managing them all. 
“School is stressful,” Shenker says. “Even with the most caring teachers and the most supportive systems, the most well-resourced children still experience immense stress at school.” 
As per National Alliance on Mental Health, in the US, one in six children experience a mental health disorder every year. 
“Giving students more tools and opportunities to de-stress by allowing them to take ownership of their mental health and take breaks when they need can be helpful for learning,” Shenker says. “A chronically stressed brain is not in learning mode, it is in survival mode. So there is an argument to be made that giving students mental health days makes teaching and learning more effective as students will grasp concepts sooner and retain them more deeply if they experience less chronic stress.” 
Shenkar has observed that the schools have consistently communicated that student's production and performance levels are of high priority. Which makes many schools fail in investing time and resources that's required for the emotional support for their pupils. 
By offering mental health days it is a step in the right direction and the sutends get support and they don't have to seek for one. 
Sources - Very Well Mind 