#WDC Each lunar phase is thought to give off a different energy, and we can harness that energy through daily life. Representing beginnings and ends, new moon energy is way different than Full Moon energy. Since the moon encourages us to look inward, moon-mapping is especially important for inner work

The Latest. The brightest and largest object in our night sky, the Moon makes Earth a more livable planet by moderating our home planet's wobble on its axis, leading to a relatively stable climate. It also causes tides, creating a rhythm that has guided humans for thousands of years.

The lunar cycle has an impact on human reproduction, in particular fertility, menstruation, and birth rate. ... In addition, other events associated with human behavior, such as traffic accidents, crimes, and suicides, appeared to be influenced by the lunar cycle.

Researchers believe our internal biological rhythms may be linked to the Moon's cycle. Changes in sleep can have dramatic effects on your overall mood – causing irritability, decreased concentration and focus, impatience, and elevated levels of the stress hormone, cortisol.

The Moon represents powerful feminine energy. It signifies wisdom, intuition, birth, death, reincarnation, and a spiritual connection. ... The moon also represents our deepest personal needs. We can use the knowledge and energy of the Moon's cycle to better connect to ourselves

Charging your crystals.
Dancing to release energy.
Lighting a candle.
Smudging with sage.
Starting a gratitude journal.

The symbol of the sacral chakra is a moon crescent, which represents the relationship between the tides of water and the phases of the moon

Seek new beginnings. “This is a time of releasing, welcoming closure, and allowing things to complete,” says Alejandrez-Prasad. ... 
Initiate intense discussions. ... 
Consume mind-altering substances. ... 
Overextend your schedule. ... 
Rush the process.

How to Make Your Moon Strong in Astrology
 Meditate every day.
 Do yoga a few times per week.
 Repeat a mantra to yourself.
 Try donating or volunteering.
 Conserve water as much as possible.
 Wear silver.
 Wear gemstones.
 Obey your mother.
Yeah.