Top 6 Picks of the Week

1. Fun in Georgetown

Explore precious prints and uncommon finds at the Georgetown Rare Book Fair —and take note of a preview that includes an evening of cocktails and canapés! Go adult trick-or-treating at the Georgetown Sweets Tour, which allows you to visit 12 local boutiques to collect a variety of treats.

2. Food and drink festivals 

Taste some of the best restaurants in the area at the Taste of the Nation by No Kid Hungry . Support Black- and Hispanic-owned restaurants in the area at the Food for Thought Festival. Head to Mount Vernon for their Spring Wine Festival & Sunset Tour . Explore the new Metropolitan Beer Trail, which connects seven bars across the District—and once you finish, head to DC Brau, which will have live music this Sunday.

3.Jewish American Heritage Month

Celebrate 18 years of Shabbat services with Sixth & I . The JxJ festival showcases Jewish films, music, dance, and arts. Some programs  that may interest you include environmental film Dead Sea Guardians, a musical piece on “The Afro-Semitic Experience,” or drama film Rose. It’s also the last chance this week to catch the exhibit “Seen/Unseen: Linda Stein and Mil Lubroth” at Culture House.

4. After-hour museum fun

Head to the FUTURES exhibit for an Into the Future of Fashion event , which includes a fashion show, interactive talks, and performances. Renwick Gallery will be reopening this week with an opening party . The Museum of the Palestinian People will hosting an opening reception for their new exhibit, “Dreams Rising: Palestinian Children in Gaza Imagine a Future National Gallery Nights is sold out, but make sure to set a reminder for May 13 at noon to reserve tickets for next week’s Jazz in the Gardens. 

5. Neighborhood festivals

The Columbia literary festival  returns featuring panel discussions, poetry walls, pop-up bookstores, and more. Be inspired at the 2nd annual Old Town Springtime Art Festival . The DC State Fair will be hosting a Spring Mini-Fair including a kids dance-off, information on urban beekeeping, and a mambo sauce demo. Head to Rockville for a Soulfull Springfest ncluding the reopening of  Soulfull Cafe, Zumba, and local artwork.

6. Grab your dancing shoes

 The DC Tango Festival starts this week with a CD release concert at the Embassy of Argentina. The festival has events until June 17 . Bring your dancing shoes to the plaza for salsa.