Whether you're looking to escape the daily grind, reconnect with a romantic partner or get in touch with nature, there is a getaway for every Aussie right on our doorstep.

With travel now front of mind after the Covid pandemic halted it for the past two years, people are rushing to book overseas trips and tropical getaways.

However, there are plenty of hidden gems to explore just a couple of hours from our major cities – giving you the perfect opportunity to pack your bags to escape even just for a weekend.

Hidden Alpine Village in Hotham Heights, is just a 4.5-hour drive from Melbourne. Hidden in Victoria's Hotham Heights, this getaway is a unique eco-village surrounded by snow and gum trees.

This escape is for anyone who wants to add a little luxury and uniqueness to an average camping trip, with mulled wine and a toasty warm fire pit a must.

Travellers can enjoy their dinner in a cosy communal restaurant tent before staring up at the stars through the transparent top of your private snow-dome.

The Redleaf Carriage 343 in Fitzroy Falls, just shy of two hours from Sydney, is definitely a destination with a difference. Switch off your phone and breathe in the fresh country air as you explore the bush.

Perfect for those looking for a romantic weekend away, this 1890s train carriage located on a small working farm is the height of luxury.

Why stay on dry land when you could escape to the Watershed, Dangar Island, on NSW's Central Coast. This unique experience is just a quick jet down the river to a secluded bay where your home away from home awaits you. This boat has three levels, a picturesque 360-degree view and best of all provides ultimate privacy.

DULC Tree House is nestled in the treetops of Victoria's Grampians. Get in touch with nature as you dine on your very own private deck overlooking your tranquil surroundings. This getaway is perfect any time of year, so now is the perfect time to pack a lakeside picnic, fish off the side of your kayak or take a walk to Mackenzie Falls, one of Victoria's largest waterfalls.