Mohamed Salah's contract situation at Liverpool is still hanging in the balance, as no clear breakthrough has been achieved yet. The club and the Eygtpian have had some sort of communication for the contract renewal, but both parties are yet to agree on the same. Salah's contract at Anfield runs out next summer, as Liverpool are desperate to retain the services of their star winger.

It was reported that Mohamed Salah demanded a higher wage than offered in the contract. However, Jamie Redknapp opined that Liverpool defender, Virgil Van Djik should be the highest paid player at the club. He believes that the Dutch defender is irreplaceable, however, one can still find replacement for Mohamed Salah.

"Virgil van Dijk for me is the most important player at the club. I wouldn't give anyone more money than him. That's how I see it.
They will find another Mo Salah. You can't find another Virgil van Dijk right now," said Redknapp, as quoted by Sky Sports.

Both, Mohamed Salah and Van Djik missed the league fixture against the Saints, as the Reds claimed a nervy 2-1 away win to keep the pressure on Manchester City. Both players were injured, and rested for precautionary messages. Now, Liverpool have just two games to play this season, with the first one coming against Wolves on Sunday. They end their season with a UCL final showdown with Real Madrid.

Liverpool were certainly look to sort out Salah's contract situation in the summer. According to Jamie Redknapp, it is quite obvious that strikers are paid more handsomely as compared to defenders. But, he believes that should not be the case with Salah and Van Djik.

"Liverpool could theoretically, if they lost him, go and get someone to replace Salah. His goals, his numbers, are unbelievable, but there will always be another great striker that comes to this club," said Redknapp.

Mohamed Salah arrived at Anfield in the summer of 2017, and is currently in his fifth full season with Liverpool. He has played a crucial part in reviving the glory days.