Over 1500 companies worldwide have products certified according to the Friend of the Sea standard for sustainable fisheries and aquaculture. Among these are shrimp products from Atlantic Shrimpers Limited. The Friend of the Sea certification logo allows consumers to choose their seafood responsibly and help conservation of marine resources. In turn, Friend of the Sea dedicates an important part of the revenue from its certification activities, to develop and support conservation projects to protect endangered marine species, such as sea turtles, albatross, dolphins, whales, seals, penguins and many more. One of the supported projects is the one carried out by Doynsola Ogunye to protect Sea Turtles from poaching in Lagos.

Consumers choosing Friend of the Sea certified products, such as the shrimps from Atlantic Shrimpers Limited will know the product is fished sustainably and that the same time they will be able to contribute to conservation projects to protect endangered aquatic species .

Leatherback Sea Turtle, Green Sea Turtle, Olive Ridley Sea Turtle and the Hawksbill Sea Turtle are found in the waters of Nigeria. Their nesting grounds are found in beaches throughout the Nigeria coastline, including near Lagos. Local poachers vigorously hunt sea turtles and rob their nests during the egg-laying season, bringing considerable damage to the endangered species’ reproducing female populations, their nesting grounds, and potential hatchlings. A poor awareness on the conservation status and needs of sea turtle populations continues to bring great pressure on migrating sea turtles and nesting females and their potential hatchlings.

Mangrove forests and local terrestrial forests are beginning to exhibit signs of terminal exhaustion, with mangroves cut down and used as firewood for households and commercial fish drying, and the terrestrial forests cleared for use as lumber for house-building and canoe carving. The mangrove area which has also served as breeding ground for some important wildlife species (sea turtles, west African manatee, crocodiles etc.) and other important edible species such as fish, crab, frogs, lobsters and periwinkle, is continuously destroyed without restoring it.