Disney’s live action remake of the beloved 1940 animated classic movie Pinocchio is yet another addition to their slate of high budget live action remakes of their old animated classics such as Cinderella, The Jungle Book, Beauty and The Beast and The Lion King. This live action adaptation tells the exact same story of the 1940 animated film, just in the most dull, lifeless and sterile manner possible. There are a couple of additions to the film though they honestly don’t do much besides unnecessarily pad the run time a bit in an attempt to show that this is indeed a different movie, spoilers, it really is not.
The music is dull and uninspired while the choreography is horribly flat,boring and lifeless and seemed to be done more out of a sense of obligation than anything else while the brilliant animations of the 1940 version are replaced almost 95% with CGI although granted, the animation legitimately does look pretty at times. Still, this over-reliance on CGI really takes away from the very fluid almost lifelike movements that we saw in the original. Pinocchio looks more like a creepy lifeless puppet who can stare into your soul while Jiminy Cricket looks like full on plastic.
The standouts here are Tom Hanks as Gepetto who feels very Disney-ish but there is a level of grace and vulnerability to his character, Cynthia Erivo as the Blue Fairy really does feel like a fairy while Joseph Gordon Levitt is surprisingly good as Jiminy Cricket. Most of the other performances here are either downright awful or simply forgettable. Pinocchio has always been a rather dark story with a level of maturity to it while this is basically as kiddish and robotic as it gets.
In the end it poses the question, that if director Robert Zemeckis was going only for a shot by shot remake, then why go for a remake at all? All Disney really managed to pull off with this unnecessary and flat out wooden remake is get the audiences more excited for the Guillermo Del Toro version of the same character.
Score: 3/10