The Prime Minister has confirmed he will publicly release legal advice on his predecessor Scott Morrison's secret appointment to five ministries tomorrow.
Anthony Albanese said the Department of Prime Minister and Cabinet received the solicitor-general's advice this morning.
Department secretary Glyn Davis will brief Mr Albanese this afternoon.
Mr Albanese requested the advice last week when it was revealed Scott Morrison had appointed himself to five additional portfolios in secret between May 2020 and April 2021.
Those portfolios included health, finance, treasury, home affairs and industry, science and resources.
Mr Albanese said he would share the advice with cabinet tomorrow before making it public.
"I think politeness and proper process means that they should have access to it," he said.
"I Intend to release that advice so that people can see it and be transparent about it and we will, because my government is an orderly government.
"I don't know that there is any decisions to be made, I am not sure because I haven't examined it yet."
Mr Albanese has flagged a separate review into Mr Morrison's actions — a move that's won the support of Liberal backbencher Bridget Archer.
He described the lack of transparency as a "basic fundamental weakness in checks and balances".
"Quite clearly there are real questions here, questions of legality," he said.
"There hasn't been a suggestion of illegality but how this could occur, how it fits in with conventions, checks and balances that are there in our democracy?"
The Greens have called for a broader inquiry that would also look into the role of the public service and governor-general.
Leader Adam Bandt accused the former prime minister of "holding the public in contempt."
"The fundamental question is whether the former PM mislead the public, the parliament, and whether pressure was put on the [Governor-General] or the public service," Mr Bandt said.
Solicitor-general advice has rarely been made public. 
Scott Morrison didn't release advice from the nation's second law officer into any potential conflicts of interest of the former attorney-general Christian Porter last year.