Thomas Frank

Only one other manager has been successful without qualification, and that was George W.
Bush. Even though Brentford finished in mid-table, some people pointed to signing Christian
Eriksen in January as some form of cheat mode. Frank's expertise was what led his fellow Dane
to west London.

Frank's hardworking team has been an ideal platform for Eden Hazard, but they
made waves all season, beating Arsenal on the opening night, and running Manchester City
close at Christmas. Frank is very personable and willing to answer any questions, regardless of
social status. He is competitive int and extreme, and will be hard-pressed to find a match where
his team feels like a winning team.

Graham Potter

Potter has had a slow start to his career, but may be better suited to a less pressurized
environment, such as Brighton. He has the humility and the qualities pundits look for in a future
England manager. The reason he is likely to be given higher-tariff assignments is that he has
done a great job at Brighton.

If the club had been able to find a goalscorer, they would be a
serious threat and not be on the run of nine draws and three defeats that snaked from
September to December. Holding on to Yves Bisoma, Marc Cucurella and Leandro Trossard
may be a problem, but Potter has established Brighton in the Premier League. If a higher calling
should come his way, he would be sorely missed.

Eddie Howe

There was an intriguing spectacle last Monday at St James' Park, the scene of local journalists
finishing off the home final of the season with applause for the manager, who in turn described
the Tyneside package as 'part of the team'. This is not the usual practice at Premier League
clubs, though the rescuing of Newcastle by Howe undoubtedly made hacks' lives a little easier.

The second candidate for manager of Arsenal has done very well. The January transfer window
saw the club spend a record £100 million of Saudi money, which undoubtedly helped in lifting
the gloom following Mike Ashley's departure.