As most of us are getting back to pre covid period, so are children getting back into their routines of in person learnings and socialising with larger groups, but experts gives warning that they could face certain health challenges. 

A study in JAMA Pediatrics checks into the current trend that's happening in children's health related measures, which included the transitions that occurred between 2019 and 2020 that could be due to the pandemic as well as trends for over four year period. 

The study points out to various areas of concern which have caused an increase in anxiety and depression among children during 2016 and 2020 time frame. 

The researchers understood that they needed to analyse various patterns with subpopulations, they stressed on how children need immediate access to healthcare services when needed. They also promoted the importance of healthy behaviour and supporting parents who finds time and methods on enhancing the well being of the family. 

Here are some of the common health issues that your child might face. 

Increased anxiety and depression 

Pediatrician and regional medical director of Coastal Kids Pediatrics, Dr. Steve Abelowitz said that children have undergone behavioural, emotion and developmental changes during the pandemic, even if they did or didn't get affected by the virus. 

“Both in those children that had the illness but also in those that never got COVID but experienced living through the pandemic. A lot of this is also likely due to the social isolation many children experienced,” Abelowitz told Healthline. 

As children are getting out of their bubbles and starts experiencing the world again they will tend to get worries, anxious and sad and its normal and an expected behaviour, states Deborah Serani, PsyD, psychologist and professor at Adelphi University. 

Academic regressions 

Children have confronted academic challenges as well during this period. This is due to the disruptions in the routines, closure of schools and social isolation that they faced. 

“Also, research has shown that as economic conditions worsen, children’s mental health and development is negatively impacted,” he said

Unhealthy diet 

How some adults developed unhealthy pattern of eating so did children also form this routine


Sources  https://www.healthline.com/health-news/common-concerns-about-child-health-as-the-pandemic-eases