Jean-Luc Godard, one of the most famous directors to emerge from French New Wave, has died at the age of 91.
The director of 'A Bout de Souffle' (Breathless), 'Une Femme est une Femme' (A Woman is a Woman) and 'Le Mépris' (Contempt) was described by many as a revolutionary "auteur", his style and cinematic approach being at the heart of the Nouvelle Vague movement that purported to rewrite the language of cinema in the late 50s and 60s. 
The post-war European cinema scene saw a young generation of directors reacting against the cinematic conventions, in both content and form. This was the foundation of the Nouvelle Vague. 
In 1950, Godard met Claude Chabrol and François Truffaut, future influential members of the movement. He initially approached cinema through criticism, writing for the Cahiers du Cinéma, founded by critic and theorist André Bazin, before forming a collective and starting to experiment with short films.
Over the following years, Godard produced a series of shorts and privileged the use of natural lighting, long takes, improvised dialogue, all while toying with the established rules of editing and narrative continuity. Unwavering radicalism was the key for Godard.
Jacques Rivette, Chabrol and Truffaut were some of the first directors to experiment with style, but Godard was the one who gained notoriety and international success with his debut film, 1960's 'A Bout de Souffle' (Breathless).
His final film in the Nouvelle Vague genre, 1967’s 'Week End', was an attack against the bourgeoisie and consumerism, and featured the closing credits "La Fin du Cinéma" ("The End of Cinema”).
He then fell out of fashion in the late 70s and 80s but did enjoy comeback in 2001 for his film 'Eloge de l'Amour' (In Praise of Love). Since then, his experimental features 'Film Socialisme' (2010) and Adieu au Language (Goodbye To Language) (2014) proved to be too challenging or borderline unwatchable for some.
His contribution to cinema was recognised with a 2010 honorary Oscar – for which the citation read: “For passion. For confrontation. For a new kind of cinema."
For a rich body of films and his most famous quotes will Godard remain: “Photography is truth. The cinema is truth 24 times per second” and “You don't make a movie, the movie makes you.”