In today’s world, people are watching mostly three types of content which are movies, web series, and documentaries. The majority of the viewers know about the genres of movies and web series and on the other side, they know very little about the genre of documentaries. Today, I will explain the different genres of documentaries to you all -

1. Expository Documentary - When the director of the documentary exposes the subject directly to the audience with heavy research then it is called Expository documentary. This type of documentary is majorly voice over based and the type of narration used by the director is very linear.

2. Observational Documentary - When the director wants to show realistic videos or we can say raw videos of the subject without any scripted element in it then it is called observational documentary. Observational documentary somewhere exists between expository and poetic documentary.

3. Poetic Documentary - Poetic documentary is a documentary where the director shows the emotional side of the subject with the help of visuals and not with the help of a piece to the camera of a subject. This type of documentary is rhythmic and you will not expect many highs and lows in this type of documentary.

4. Participatory Documentary - When a director of a documentary includes himself in the documentary’s narrative and the director interacts with the subjects by himself then it is known as a Participatory Documentary.

5. Performative Documentary - When a director of the documentary himself becomes the subject and live the life of the character and shoot the personal experience. This type of documentary is closest to reality.

6. Reflexive Documentary - Reflexive documentary is a type of documentary where a documentary focuses on the relationship between the director and the audience. A reflexive documentary is a ‘Behind the scenes’ movie where the audience will see how all the crew come together to complete the particular project.

It is not necessary that one documentary can only have one genre in it, the director can take the liberty and can add more than one genre in his/her documentary.