The announcement of Dalit face Charanjit Singh Channi as the Punjab Congress' chief ministerial candidate was on expected lines.

But what was not expected was that Navjot Singh Sidhu would accept the decision without any demur. He had raised the temperature within the party in the run up to today's announcement. From saying that the Congress high command wants a weak face who can dance to its tunes to claiming that the people of Punjab would not accept a "mafia protector-in-chief" as their chief minister, Sidhu had said it all. And there are no guesses about whom he was alluding to.

Sidhu was convinced that this is his last chance to become the chief minister and that it would be impossible to dethrone Channi once he establishes himself. 

That is why former Congress president Rahul Gandhi while making the announcement insisted that it was a very difficult decision to make.

Gandhi deliberately put it on the people of Punjab and Congress workers to convey to Sidhu that it was not the high command's decision.

No doubt Gandhi had a tough task at hand to pacify the warring party leaders in Punjab. He also sought to project a united front ahead of the announcement by asking party's campaign committee chairman Sunil Jakhar to drive the vehicle in which he took the front seat while both Sidhu and Channi sat in the back.

The Congress high command was in a dilemma - to annoy the Dalits by naming Sidhu or push Jat Sikhs away by going with Channi.

Punjab accounts for highest Dalit population in the country. According to 2011 census,  Dalits account for 32% of the state's approximately 3 crore population while Jat Sikhs constitute 20-25%.

Despite Sidhu having upped the ante, the Congress leadership had limited options. Any move to ignore Channi would have backfired not only in Punjab but across the country. 

Channi had so far successfully projected himself as the "aam aadmi's (common.people's) chief minister and his appointment was seen a refreshing change in Punjab that had witnessed decades of the VIP culture. 

For Sidhu, it is very important to retain his Amritsar East seat.