Drinking could get out of control and cause many issues, but now study shows even drinking nearly 7 units or more of alcohol was associated with high levels of iron in the brain. The study appeared in the issue of the journal PLOS Medicine. 

The higher levels of iron in certain parts of the brain produced poorer results on cognitive tests 

As per UK Chief Medical Officers’ Low-Risk Drinking Guidelines, seven units are equal to three 175 mL glasses of wine with 14% of alcohol content. 

Drinking for about 7 to 14 units is considered as moderate drinking. 

The importance of the study is that to find the effects of alcohol on brain iron content as the iron buildup in the brain has previously been linked with neurodegenerative conditions like Alzheimer’s and Parkinson disease. 

The lead author Anya Topiwala and her research team at the University of Oxford, United Kingdom took 20,965 people from UK Biobank for their study. 

The research found that drinking seven units of alcohol per week increased the amounts of iron in the basal ganglia. This is the area of the brain where the functions such as motor movements, cognition, emotion, eye movements take place. 

They noticed in the study that the higher iron levels in this area was linked to worse cognitive function. 

“Potential implications are that this adds to the increasing evidence base that even small amounts of alcohol may damage the brain,” said Topawala. “Additionally, it offers insight into the way alcohol damages the brain — and we hope offers future avenues for studies to test whether intervening to lower iron might help avoid damage.” 

Dr. Patricia E. Molina, an expert who wasn't included in the study said that basal ganglia is vulnerable to age associated changes. The study proves that brain iron accumulation that's because of alcohol consumption can cause cognitive decline.  

“The results provide ideas for future studies to determine the contribution of iron concentrations to changes in brain function,” she added.

Sources - Healthline