Brentford, who were promoted from the Championship last summer to the Premier League for
the first time in 75 years, have created quite an impression in the Premier League this season.

The Bees survived an alarming drop in form at the outset of 2022 to complete the season
comfortably in mid-table, while upsetting the bookmakers and the established order with a
number of memorable results.

SEASON OVERVIEW

Brentford's first season in the Premier League has surpassed even the most enthusiastic fans'
expectations, launching themselves onto the big stage with trademark zeal and elegance.

Despite a troubling blip in mid-season, the Bees have seamlessly transitioned to the Premier
League, and a 13th-place finish—just five points off the top half—is a great result.

Thomas Frank's team got off to a fantastic start by beating London rivals Arsenal in their first
game, before drawing their next two games to remain unblemished coming into September.

Another extraordinary result occurred in that month, when the Bees came from behind twice to
draw 3-3 with Liverpool at home.

Later in the autumn, a run of four straight defeats raised concerns for the ever-optimistic Frank,
especially since two of them came against potential relegation rivals Burnley and Norwich City,
and only a win over Aston Villa in Brentford's first game of the new year broke another run of
defeats in December and January.

When the West London club was knocked out of the FA Cup by Everton, a bleak spring seemed
inevitable, but a brilliant move by Frank and the club hierarchy secured one of the season's best
signings: bringing comeback kid Christian Eriksen's elite-level skill and experience to their
modest corner of the capital.

After making his debut in a 2-0 setback to lowly Newcastle that pulled the Bees deeper into
difficulties, Eriksen's starts increased in frequency, as did Brentford's victories.

Five wins in six games included victories over Norwich, Burnley, Chelsea, West Ham, and
Watford, putting them in a strong position to complete the season with six points from their
remaining three games.