New Delhi: Senior Congress leaders from Gujarat Raju Parmar and Naresh Raval are set to join the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on August 17, dealing a major blow to the grand old party ahead of the upcoming assembly elections in the state.

Parmar, 72, has been a three-term Rajya Sabha member from 1988 to 2006, while Raval, 63, was a Minister of State for Home in the Congress government led by chief minister Chimanbhai Patel. He was also the leader of the opposition in 2002 when the Gujarat riots happened.

Parmar was a prominent Dalit face of the Congress while Raval, a three-time legislator, is a Brahmin. They met Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday to firm up their joining plan.

The two were associated with the Congress for over four decades and had stayed put even during the party's worst period in the state. The Congress has been out of power in the home state of Prime Minister Modi and union home minister Amit Shah for the past 27 years now and none of them left it during this period, a clear indication that all is not well in the grand old party.

Both were considered close to Congress' master strategist, troubleshooter and party chief Sonia Gandhi's political advisor Ahmed Patel, who died of post-Covid complications in November 2020.

After Patel's death, his loyalists were increasingly sidelined in the party. Many of them have claimed that they are not being consulted by the state leadership. Even Patidar leader Hardik Patel had blamed the Gujarat Congress leadership for his exit. He later joined the BJP.

It is well-known in Congress circles that former party chief Rahul Gandhi and Patel shared an uneasy relationship and there was a huge trust deficit between the two.

Several Congress leaders from across the country had complained to Rahul Gandhi that the widening gap between the party high command and the workers was due to Patel who wanted to maintain his tight control over the organisation.

Read more
https://www.newsdrum.in/analysis/gujarat-elections-2022-why-are-ahmed-patel-loyalists-leaving-congress-72958.html