On 21 July 2022, India chose its first tribal President, representing more than 110 million of its most disadvantaged community.


Former Jharkhand governor Droupadi Murmu sailed through presidential elections, creating history, as she defeated the opposition candidate and former union finance minister Yashwant Sinha, in being elected India’s 15th president since 1950. 


Murmu’s victory was significant, as the National Democratic Alliance (NDA), led by India’s ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), looks to consolidate its political grip on tribal India by riding on the political symbolism of anointing a tribal woman leader as the head of the republic. 


Murmu is a Santhal from Odisha, home to 9.5 million tribals. The move to nominate a tribal woman for the presidential election also split the opposition and forced some parties of the opposition United Progressive Alliance (UPA) to vote for her.


It was difficult for most parties to go against a tribal candidate when India’s Adivasis are scattered over a fifth of districts, or 150 of 773, and influence electoral outcomes in several parliamentary constituencies: 47 of 543 Parliamentary seats are reserved for scheduled tribes (STs), and 151 districts have an ST population of at least 25%, enough to affect electoral outcomes.


Yet, the government of Prime Minister Narendra Modi has taken no action on a key report submitted five years ago by what remains the only post-independence expert inquiring into the status of tribal health and healthcare. 


Indeed, some government agencies, often, did not cooperate with the committee, said its head, Abhay Bang, MD (medicine), PhD, 72, a practising doctor and founder and head of the nonprofit Society for Education, Action and Research in Community Health (SEARCH). He and his wife Rani, a gynaecologist, have been providing medical services to Adivasis since the late 1980s.


“Frankly, the tribals probably don’t count politically, and we don’t count them,” Bang told Article 14. “National priorities don’t count tribals. The health system does not count what happens to the tribal health. 


Read more - https://article-14.com/post/as-india-gets-first-adivasi-president-plan-to-boost-tribal-healthcare-has-been-ignored-for-5-years-62ec7f095b126