It's important to speak for male victims of abuse. But everytime people do it, they bring along misogynist statements. I haven't seen any man celebrity accused of abuse receive half of the attention and hate Heard is getting.

Does pointing it out makes you in favour of Heard? No, it doesn't. It's not taking sides but only pointing out the hypocrisy of society dealing with an accused that's male and one that's female. Ronaldo, for example. That man is practically worshipped. He confessed and gave a description of how he raped a woman and he's still where he is. No outrage, no career damage, nothing. In fact his following keeps growing. Why is he not being subjected to the same treatment Amber is?

Chris Brown abusing Rihanna is no news. The inhumane level he went to in order to hurt her, her pictures have always stuck with me. He has since released 8 albums, a documentary, a clothing line, and a cereal. He’s gone on six tours and has a residency lined up in Vegas. And he's still getting public's support.

Sylvester Stallone has had several allegations, dating back to 1987. The first public allegations came in 2001. No charges have ever been pressed. Since 2001, he’s been cast in 30 movies and 2 documentaries, as well as writing, directing, and producing a number of them.

In early 2018, Aziz Ansari was accused to pressuring a woman into having sex with him, even after asked to stop. He resumed touring by summer 2018. He was nominated for a Grammy in 2020. He’s released two more comedy specials on Netflix. He’s in the Bob’s Burgers movie.

And to be honest, there are countless such men who've gotten away with much worse. Where's the outrage with them? People see both victims and accused in different lights based on gender. It's not to say female abusers don't deserve to pay, they do, but keep the same energy for the men. I don't think there's any doubt left in how the world gets behind a woman who's accused and let go a man who even confesses to his crimes.

(via DailyJulienne | Twitter)