The Russian government announced on Friday that it is going to “partially restrict” people’s access to Facebook in the country, as the social media was found censoring their version of a report on the Ukraine crisis. The announcement made by Roskomnadzor, the country’s telecommunications regulator, claimed the US social media giant has been screening information of Russia’s four state-owned media outlets -- – RIA news agency, the Defence Ministry’s Zvezda TV, and websites gazeta.ru and lenta.ru.

In response, Nick Clegg, president of Meta, Facebook’s parent company, said the Russian authorities ordered them to stop their “independent fact checking and labelling of content” posted on the social media platform by four Russian state media.  “We refused. As a result, they have announced they will be restricting the use of our services,” Clegg wrote in a statement that was shared on Twitter.

After a lot of international pressure to control misinformation through Facebook and WhatsApp – mostly spread by authoritarian regimes across the world – its parent Meta recently tied up with mainstream news agencies like Reuters and AFP, to check facts and label content for veracity. Content found false, altered or distorted is censored or its access is limited.    

It’s obvious that Facebook has not helped Russian authorities share their version of news because of fact checking. But, another important reason behind the Russian move is that the social media platform has helped ordinary Russians vent their anger against Putin’s Ukraine invasion. Some activists like Marina Litvinovich, a Moscow-based journalist and activist, called for public protests through posts and videos on Facebook after Russia launched an attack on Ukraine. Police detained her at home, but thousands took to the streets protesting the invasion, from St Petersburg to Siberia. Over 1,700 of protesters were arrested, according to human rights group OVD-Info. 

Restriction on Facebook seems to be Moscow’s larger effort to control other social media platforms, mostly owned by US-based companies, as a part of a bigger crackdown against all dissidents and opponents of the Russian government.    

READ MORE: 

https://techcrunch.com/2022/02/25/russia-facebook-restricted-censorship-ukraine/

https://www.nytimes.com/2022/02/25/world/europe/russia-facebook-access.html

https://www.politico.eu/article/russia-restrict-access-facebook-media-outlets-meta/