#4.  The Wolfsburg Classic (2015/16 - UCL):

Another one of his Champions League miracles, this time in Real Madrid colours. Los
Blancos looked down and out after a disastrous first leg, one in which Ronaldo was unable
to make any impact and was mocked by Wolfsburg players as a result. Then of course,
Ronaldo or any Real Madrid team for that matter are never down and out in this competition.

The first two goals came in quick succession, with Ronaldo heading home Toni Kroos' corner
in the 17th minute to get them level.
Peter Drury's commentary on the night was particularly iconic "Mountain to climb, they've hit
the peak already". But then of course Real Madrid weren't really playing for the draw.
Zidane's men kept searching for the winner and Ronaldo obliged. A 77th minute free-kick
flew through the slightest of openings in the Wolfsburg wall, and the Bernabéu went electric. Drury of course described it as "something close to genius, he's turned the tie around all by
himself."


#3.  Breaking Spanish hearts in Russia (2018 World Cup)

This game was one of the 2018 World Cup's classics. The group stage opener featured
multiple stunning goals, end to end football and a fitting finale in classic Cristiano Ronaldo
fashion. In just the fourth minute of Portugal's World Cup campaign, he won a penalty and
smashed it in. Not long after, Spain had equalised with a brilliant Diego Costa goal. Right on
the stroke of half time, Ronaldo recieved on the edge of the area.

He turned and shot it straight at De Gea, forcing a mistake and giving his side the lead. On
the other side of the break, Spain had equalised through another Costa strike. Not long after,
a superb Nacho Fernandez volley put Spain in pole position to win. The Spaniards were of
course, dominating and Portugal had to pick their moments. Pick their moments they did, as
Ronaldo floated a free kick over and above the Spanish wall in the 88th minute. The stadium
in sochi erupted as we witnessed what will go down as one of the greatest World Cup games
in recent history.