What impact will this have on renewable energy uptake?
Part of the challenge with the president’s announcements – and it’s natural that this will happen in a public speech – is that it’s relatively light on details and timelines. And so not everything is clear. The one thing that was clear though is that the environmental requirements that will be relaxed will only be those for solar PV (photovoltaic) farms. And this will only be in areas with medium to low environmental sensitivity.

That’s an important step because environmental approvals are usually the longest and and most expensive part of the regulatory process.

But there are important elements in the regulatory process that should have been addressed. For example, building a renewable energy project on agricultural land requires ministerial approval in terms of the Agricultural Land Act. That’s quite a lengthy process.

Other legislative constraints are related to the current Mineral and Petroleum Resources Development Act, which requires the consent of the minister of mineral resources for using the land surface.

In addition, municipalities have their own zoning bylaws that govern how land is used. So all of these add a lot to the time it takes to develop renewable energy projects. If these specific aspects, over and above the environmental and building planning approvals, could be shortened or streamlined, that would would take us much further.

There’s already a massive pipeline of projects that have been developed and are ready to go ahead as a result of bid window 5. Bid windows are periods where the government, as part of its procurement programme, invites companies to compete for contracts to produce renewable energy and sell it to Eskom, the power utility. Close to 10 gigawatts of projects were submitted for bid window 5 – five times more than what was asked for. These are all projects that are ready to be built.

Read more: https://theconversation.com/ramaphosa-acts-to-ease-south-africas-energy-crisis-impact-will-be-felt-in-renewables-187880