East Africa faces a food crisis that it has not seen for decades. Three consecutive poor rainy seasons have meant severe water shortages and not many means to produce food.

The drought is the latest, but the Horn of Africa has been in the eye of the conflict, flash floods, desert locust infestations and others, not to speak for Covid-19’s effects in the last two years. Some of the most severely affected countries of the region include Ethiopia, Kenya and Somalia.

Oxfam has warned that As many as 28 million people across the region could face severe hunger. It also fears that with the unfolding crisis in Ukraine taking the world's attention away from Africa, there is “a real danger” that the international community will not “respond adequately to the escalating hunger crisis in East Africa until it is too late”. ( https://www.oxfam.org/en/press-releases/many-28-million-people-across-east-africa-risk-extreme-hunger-if-rains-fail-again )

Oxfam says that over 13 million people across Ethiopia, Kenya and Somalia have been displaced in search of water and pasture, just in the first quarter of 2022. This could only rise in the coming months.

The UN Children’s Fund (UNICEF) warned that more than five million children—whose physical and cognitive development can be permanently damaged by inadequate nutrition because of the crisis. ( https://www.cfr.org/in-brief/east-africas-growing-food-crisis-what-know )

According to experts, climate change has resulted in extreme weather events and for the last three years, rains have vanished. For the farming community, harvests have been down, and maintaining livestock is a huge issue.

The crisis arising out of Russia’s Ukraine invasion has also upset the food security balance in East Africa as countries like Kenya, Somalia, Ethiopia, Eritrea, and Sudan depend on Ukraine for wheat.

According to Oxfam, the humanitarian response has been short of expectations, with only 3% of the total $6bn UN 2022 humanitarian appeal for Ethiopia, Somalia and South Sudan, being funded to date. ( https://www.oxfam.org/en/press-releases/many-28-million-people-across-east-africa-risk-extreme-hunger-if-rains-fail-again )