
Brain Jones' experience with meditation: Over the last, nearly 50 years of meditation, I would say that it has meant different things to me at different points in my life. My goal always remained the same though: to become the highest consciousness. 
I began meditation when I was 12 years old after my father started me in Aikido - a form of martial art that uses meditation and concentration to flow the “ki” energy. It was 1968. I started studying Buddhism, particularly Zen, then Taoism and Christianity too. I did my own brand of Zen practice - a lot like mindfulness is today. At age 15, I had a major enlightenment experience where the mind completely fell away. 
Meditation was becoming front and center for me as a daily practice. But more so was the guidance of a real Master, one who took me under his wing and was able to transmit all the states I ever dreamed about and far more.
Meditation became a practical way to almost methodically experience states of awakening and an inner evolution that was tangible - not merely something to believe in but to realize.
Something very different happened during meditation. Yes, there were states of nothingness, oneness, sometimes cosmic states - being spread out in the entire universe. But more profound was an intense feeling of presence - a singular fulfilling presence that not only filled my heart but overflowed out every particle of my being. I can only say it was like the opening of the wellspring of Grace itself.
Meditation is now something different for me. To be honest - I feel the same, whether I meditate or not. In fact, mostly I volunteer my time meditating with others and helping them to grow and evolve in their own way. Master had permitted me to do this work back in 1989.
Now, almost 50 years later, the idea of the goal has dissolved. There really is nothing other than “presence” left. Not some hollow idea of a state of nothing but the all embracing infinite resource, one intent to fill ones heart with delight and completeness.