By Mohammed

On April 5, Facebook user Rukhsar, who has over 5 lakh followers, posted a video of men with saffron flags gathered outside a mosque. She wrote, “After BJP-ruled states, Muslims and mosques in Congress-ruled states are also being attacked.” She claimed that during a rally organised by Hindu organisations, miscreants barged into a mosque in Chhattisgarh and raised ‘Jai Shri Ram’ slogans.

( Link https://fb.watch/cfv_s8FcI8/)

The video shows a large number of men dawning saffron attire in front of a Muslim religious structure. A song where ‘Jai Shri Ram’ can be heard in the lyrics is playing in the background. It has been shared by several users on Facebook.

From the Twitter account of one Neha Bharti, the video received close to 1,000 likes.

( Link https://twitter.com/IAmNehaBharti/status/1511286969824804865?t=mcKZRSSzIyH1X7tQJ30t0A&s=19)

On April 6, a similar claim was made by YouTuber Faraz Malik on his channel ‘Mera Safar’, which has over 11 lakh subscribers. At 1:30 minutes, the channel claimed that saffron-clad people barged into a mosque in Chhattisgarh and chanted ‘Jai Shri Ram’ slogans. The YouTube video has received over 1.55 lakh views in the past 24 hours.

( Link https://youtu.be/KQ7UXxGZGEQ)

Alt News found that the earliest instance of the video was shared on April 4 by one Subhash Gupta on Facebook.

Fact-check
Chhattisgarh state government’s ‘Chhattisgarh State Fake News Control and Special Monitoring Cell’ shared a WhatsApp post with local journalists that carried a “fake” stamp on the video. However, it did not clarify whether the video was “fake”, meaning that the incident did not take place in Chhattisgarh, or the viral social media claims are incorrect.

Alt News reached out to Umesh Mishra, who is the secretary of the fake news monitoring committee, Chhattisgarh. He said, “The video was being shared with the claim that it is from Chhattisgarh. No other information was given. We feared that it may cause disturbance hence, stamped it fake.” He also said that senior officials in the administration have sought a detailed report about the video.

Read the full story here:- https://www.altnews.in/chhattisgarh-dargah-wasnt-attacked-by-hindu-groups-video-viral-with-false-claim/?utm_source=website