Are you a cat or dog person? Perhaps you’re both. During the pandemic many people indulged their urge for an animal companion and there was a huge increase in dog ownership.

As we move towards spring maybe you’re thinking of taking the leap, and welcoming a dog into your home. Living with a canine friend has many positive health benefits – such as a lower risk of heart disease and reducing stress – and they can provide companionship and unconditional love to adults and children alike. But there is so much to think about that it can be overwhelming.

Here are some things to consider to help fully prepare for the exciting journey ahead. After all, the dog will be entirely dependent on you for its wellbeing so it’s important to find the perfect match.

1. It’s a long commitment

Dogs live for around ten to 15 years on average. They will probably change your life completely and even normal day-to-day activities, such as a spontaneous outing can become more complicated. You’ll have to think about arranging a dog-sitter, or ensure that you can take the dog with you wherever you go.

Dogs are also big money burners, regardless of whether they are big or small. You will have to provide food, equipment (including cold weather clothes), dog-sitters and pay for their medical expenses throughout their life. It could all add up to somewhere between £50-80 per month for the dog’s upkeep.

2. They need company

Dogs need a lot of exercise and play to stay healthy. Generally it is best to spend at least two hours a day actively engaging with your dog, especially walking and playing.

The other issue that needs careful consideration is a dog’s need for company. They are social animals and do not cope well with being left alone for more than five hours a day, often experiencing separation anxiety when they are left for too long.

3. Socialisation and training needs

Read more at The Conversation: https://theconversation.com/five-top-tips-to-consider-before-getting-a-canine-companion-173961

Image Credits: https://www.shutterstock.com/image-photo/dog-travel-by-car-nova-scotia-1420663709