The Australian defence force is expanded by nearly a third—its biggest peacetime increase in its size, according to an announcement by the country’s Prime Minister Scott Morrison. Morrison, expected to call a general election in May, and targeting a re-election bid, has made national security a key issue in the election.

He said that the military expansion was his government’s recognition of the “threats and the environment” faced by Australia as a country, as a “liberal democracy in the Indo-Pacific”. He added that a bigger troop is required to support a nuclear-powered submarine fleet in the near future, as part of the new Australia-Britain-US (AUKUS) defence alliance.

The government wants to increase the number of soldiers, sailors and aviators from 60,000 to 80,000, at an estimated cost of around Australian dollars ($38 billion) – equivalent to $27bn in US dollars – between 2024 and 2040. However, there are doubts on whether the country will get so many new personnel as the country has struggled to attract new recruits in the defence forces. In the past few years, defence forces have been deployed to fight natural disasters, such as forest wildfires, rather than combat in the battlefield.  

In the new defence plan, there will be army regiments for long range fires and another on cyber security. Intelligence communications and electronic warfare capability will also get a boost.      

The country has been beefing up its defense budget in the past few years due to growing influence of China in the Indo-Pacific region. Now Russia’s Ukraine invasion offers him an opportunity to go for the biggest expansion since the Vietnam war.

The defense boost also helps Morrison, a Conservative Party candidate, sail ahead of the opposition Labour Party candidate Anthony Albanese who has scored higher in a recent opinion poll. While making the announcement on defence boost Morrison accused Albanese for being “soft” towards Chinese expansion in the region.    

READ MORE:

 https://www.smh.com.au/politics/federal/more-troops-for-nuclear-submarines-cyber-in-38-billion-defence-force-expansion-20220309-p5a385.html

https://www.abc.net.au/news/2022-03-10/defence-workforce-growing-2040-national-security/100896902

https://www.dw.com/en/australia-to-expand-defense-force-by-nearly-a-third/a-61075764