On 2 June, former public works department (PWD) contractor Ranjit Soni was shot in the head, in daylight, in front of a PWD office in his hometown of Vidisha, a town of 155,000 people 60 km north-east of Bhopal. 


Soni, 46, became a right-to-information (RTI) activist in 2016, filing hundreds of requests, mainly in and about the PWD, under the Right To Information (RTI) Act, 2005.


“He had gone to the PWD office for some documents when he was shot in the head from a close range,” said Sameer Yadav, assistant superintendent of police (ASP) of Vidisha, headquarters of a central Madhya Pradesh (MP) district of the same name north of state capital Bhopal.


On 3 June, police arrested five people, including a civil works contractor named Jaswant Singh and his alleged associates Ankit Yadav, Naresh Sharma, Aish Kumar Choubey and Shailendra Patel, as murder suspects.


Monika Shuka, Vidisha district’s superintendent of police, said Soni and the accused had a long-standing dispute. “Soni had filed many RTI requests in the PWD department regarding the work details of  contractor Jaswant Singh.”


According to the Commonwealth Human Rights Initiative (CHRI), a think tank, 99 RTI activists have been killed, 179 assaulted, and 186 harassed or threatened across India since April 2006, when the organisation started its tracker. In Bihar, 17 RTI activists have been killed since 2008 for exposing corruption.


As far back as 2016, MP chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan said, while speaking to government officials, that some RTI activists have murky lives. “Kuch gande hote hain (some are dirty),” he was reported to have said. 


Despite civil society representatives seeking accountability from governments for rising attacks on RTI activists (here and here), MP’s activists who use the sunshine law, passed in 2005 to transform the relationship between government bodies and citizens, have continued to be vulnerable.    

Activists in MP told Article 14 that the government not only failed to protect them but has  harassed them by filing cases against them on fake charges. 

Read more - https://article-14.com/post/police-surveillance-to-fake-criminal-cases-the-perils-of-exercising-the-right-to-information-in-madhya-pradesh-62afdf4f9c871