Christopher Nkunku was born and raised in an eastern suburb in Paris, the same area where his fellow compatriot Paul Pogba was born and bought up. Nkunku was an incredibly gifted and robust player with a “footballer’s DNA” from a young age and joined France’s renowned national academy, Clairefontaine, alongside the talent of Marcus Thuram, Allan Saint-Maximin, Amine Harit and a year before a certain Kylian Mbappé.


He joined PSG academy at the tender age of 13 years and made his professional debut in 2015 under Laurent Blanc. He mostly played in a 3 man midfield, that's where he could get his minutes steadily increasing.


Nkunku even made 22 Ligue 1 appearances in what would be his final season at Paris Saint-Germain in 2018-19. However, he was never particularly prolific with only 3 goals and 2 assists in that season being his best tally.

However, in 2019, with his contract running down, manager Tuchel decided to cash on him rather than letting the academy graduate flourish and learn under ‘star’ players like Mbappe, 


He joined RB Leipzig, which had developed young talents such as Sadio Mane, Joshua Kimmich, Timo Werner and Erling Haaland. 


In his first season, Nkunku caught the eye of many taking to the Bundesliga like a duck to water. He played most of his minutes hugging the left side touchline in Nagelsmann 3-4-3 and 4-2-2-2. He ended up with 5 goals and an astonishing 13 assists in his debut Bundesliga season

The following season in 20-21, Nkunku started playing a lot more in the half-spaces on both sides in Nagelsmann 3-4-2-1, an idea still not seen a lot. There wasn’t too much penalty box involvement however as Nkunku still didn’t possess the predatory goalscoring instincts.


Nagelsmann gave lot of emphasis on lightning fast exchange, following dominance in possession, which suited Nkunku Style.


Following  Nagelsmann’s departure to Bayern Munich last summer,Jesse Marsch was bought to replace him. He reverted back to original RB style of play, which is vertical and direct play.Marsch initially started with a 4-2-3-1 with Nkunku playing as a natural winger.

Below is the whole link

https://link.medium.com/kn0mbaX4Inb