Ukraine is burning through money fast. The invasion by Russia has been costly for the country. According to the International Monetary Fund, Ukraine’s GDP could shrink by 35% as a result of the war. The country’s international grain exports have red, with a recent deal to restart exports likely to move only some of its current stocks. The country shipped US$27.8 billion (£22.6 billion) in agricultural products to other countries last year, or 41% of its total exports.

Bar chart showing monthly grain exports by Ukraine in tonnes

It is not surprising then that the country’s public finances are in distress. Ukraine’s ministry of finance has estimated its public sector deficit increased from US$2 billion in March 2022 to as much as US$7 billion by May.

If Ukraine runs out of money it would not only affect the war effort, but could also leave the country unable to pay nurses, teachers and police officers, among other important workers. The negative implications of this for the people of Ukraine would be varied, ranging from the breakdown of important services to an inability for households to pay bills and buy food. This a significant concern of course, but the outlook is not as catastrophic as some might think.

Ukraine has already received funding from allies, with more promised. The US, for example, has committed approximately US$5.3 billion in security assistance to Ukraine since the beginning of the Biden Administration, including around US$4.6 billion during “Russia’s unprovoked invasion”, the US Department of Defense says.

And this is not the only help received by Ukraine. The G7 and EU have announced official financing commitments to Ukraine worth US$29.6 billion. EU leaders have also pledged additional support of up to €9 billion (£7.6 billion), on top of a previous €1.2 billion emergency loan. This money from international partners will tide Ukraine over in the short term.

Read more: https://theconversation.com/war-is-stopping-ukraine-from-paying-its-debts-heres-how-international-powers-can-continue-to-support-its-recovery-187939