
September 4, 1962, remains the most memorable day in the post-Independence era of Indian football. On this day, 60 years ago, India won the Asian Games gold medal for the last time till date. It was achieved in front of a hostile crowd of close  to hundred thousand at Senayan Stadium in Jakarta, who hurled abuses at the Indian players right from the start – not because of sporting reasons, but because of purely political considerations. Yet, the Indian boys, led by Chuni Goswami and whose average age was 26, fought gallantly to beat South Korea 2-1 in the final and bag the gold.
In the 1962 Asian Games in Jakarta, the Indonesian government made sure the Chinese Taipei and Israel (they were still part of Asian Games) athletes were not invited to participate. While Chinese Taipei and Israel protested at the International Olympic Committee, most of the participating nations decided to keep mum. However, Mr. Guru Dutt Sondhi from India, who was the founder member and vice president of the Asian Games federation, decided to protest. He even went to the extent of suggesting that a resolution should be brought to remove the tag of “Asian” from the Jakarta Games. 
It spelt real trouble for India. Anti-India protests sparked off across Indonesia and Indian athletes became hugely unpopular. They were booed and barracked whenever they took the field. Even the Indian Embassy in Jakarta was attacked by a group of miscreants. The government of India said again and again that it had nothing to do with Sondhi’s statement, but it fell on deaf ears.
Amidst all the drama, protests, criticism and heckling, the Indian footballers stood firm. After starting their campaign with the defeat against South Korea in the group league, they went from strength to strength and reached the final after defeating Thailand, Japan and South Vietnam. So bad was the situation that their team bus had to remove the tricolour from the front fearing attack from protesters. In the final PK Banerjee and Jarnail Singh scored To defeat South Korea 2-1. It is time we remembered the fearless boys from the 1962 squad.