by Damenda Porage

Sri Lanka, 74 years after her independence from colonial rulers, is now experiencing the worst-case scenario — politically, economically and strategically. What brought Sri Lanka to this tragic state is the mindless governance unleashed on its people by the chauvinistic, self-seeking and short-sighted representatives elected by the people’s democracy. What was once a prosperous ‘pearl in the Indian ocean’ now stays afloat as a stagnant landmass, a solidified teardrop in the high seas.

In the few decades after independence, Ceylon, present Sri Lanka, was adjudged as the best democracy in the region. Its standard and percentage of education were also found to be superior, the per capita income the highest in the region, while the rupee was the strongest. Sri Lanka was once a fertile and prosperous land blessed with a sublime climate and pristine rivers. The rich land of Sri Lanka once had non-failing paddy harvests and tea gardens producing the finest tea in the world. Abundant in minerals, Sri Lanka was also known for its precious gems sourced from Ratnapura (City of Gems), which the famed 13th-century Venetian explorer and writer Marco Polo mentioned in his writings. The country was known as the ‘Land of the God of Wealth’. Businessmen, traders and artisans from other countries sought Sri Lanka, lived here and prospered.

What befell Sri Lanka of late is tragic and heart-wrenching. Today, in most parts of the country, we see neverending queues of motorbikes, trishaws and vehicles stretching miles. People of all ages waiting long hours, with angst, fatigue and uncertainty in their eyes, desperately seeking the elusive fuel at an exorbitant cost is a regular sight. Some of these helpless citizens have collapsed and died haplessly waiting in such extreme conditions.

Occasional sightings of large gatherings or demonstrations demanding price reduction, wall writings and posters springing up in several parts add to the sombreness of the plight of the Sri Lankan people who ended up suffering at the very hands of their elected representatives.

Read the full story here:- https://theprobe.in/sri-lanka-under-emergency-land-of-the-gods-weep/