As the Jan. 6 committee’s hearings pass their halfway point, they have brought new details to light that explain the events of the attack on the Capitol and place them in context of a larger effort to overturn the 2020 presidential election.

In the first hearing, Committee Vice Chair Liz Cheney previewed the committee’s case that President Donald Trump committed a crime when he alleged widespread voter fraud and encouraged his supporters to contest the 2020 election. The second hearing demonstrated that Trump was repeatedly told by his own advisers his claims were false. The committee used the third hearing to focus on an illegal and unconstitutional plan to block the certification of Joe Biden as president.

The evidence presented in the proceedings – including surveillance footage of the violence as a mob assaulted Capitol police officers – has led to discussions across the country and around the globe about the U.S. democratic system of governance.

While coverage tends to focus on all that went wrong during the transition of presidential power, the hearings also showcased much of what went right. Namely, a widespread and profound commitment to the rule of law by a range of citizens and officials, from the vice president to Trump administration staffers to outside advisers.

Supporters of President Trump storming the US Capitol, illuminated by a flare behind them.
 by Trump supporters. Evelyn Hockstein/For The Washington Post via Getty Images
Dedicated public servants
Understandably, much of the attention on the hearings has centered on the actions of President Trump in the lead-up to Jan. 6. Other media coverage has focused on the members of Congress who are serving on the committee.

But as a scholar of congressional oversight, I believe that among the real stars of the three hearings are the talented – and largely unrecognized – teams of staffers who worked to obtain the evidence presented in the hearings. Often underpaid, these individuals are committed to making government work.

Read more: https://theconversation.com/jan-6-committee-hearings-show-what-went-right-not-just-what-went-wrong-185246