A last chance for Lionel Messi and Cristiano Ronaldo. Kylian Mbappé back on the biggest stage of all. Brazil bidding for a record-extending sixth title.
One of the most eagerly anticipated World Cups in memory — as much for off-the-field reasons as those on it — is just around the corner in Qatar and excitement is building after the qualification period was wrapped.
Thirty-two teams, 64 matches, 29 days. The first World Cup in the Middle East.
The tournament starts on Nov. 20 and the final is set for Dec. 18.
Here’s a few things to watch when the tournament gets going in the smallest country ever to host a World Cup:
TOP TEAMS
Brazil (No. 1 in FIFA ranking). Neymar, Vinícius Júnior and the rest of the flair-filled Selecao are peaking at the right time. Is a first World Cup title since 2002 on the horizon?
Belgium (No. 2). The “Golden Generation” is gradually breaking up but there’s still Kevin De Bruyne leading the Belgian charge.
Argentina (No. 3). No World Cup title since the days of the great Diego Maradona. This will be the first World Cup since his death in November 2020 and Argentina is improving, with Messi still at its core.
France (No. 4). The defending champions. Still the country with the most depth to its squad. Now with Mbappé AND Karim Benzema leading the attack. No team has retained its World Cup title since Brazil in 1962.
England (No. 5). Semifinalist at the World Cup in 2018, finalist at the European Championship in 2021. Soccer’s most underperforming national team is trending in the right direction.
BIG STARS
Lionel Messi, Argentina. The seven-time world player of the year might have been saving his 35-year-old legs for one last push at a World Cup winner’s medal that, to many, would solidify him as soccer’s greatest player.
Cristiano Ronaldo, Portugal. He has won the European Championship but the leading scorer in men’s international soccer hasn’t played in a World Cup final, let alone won one. He’s 37 years old now — make the most of him while you can.
Read more
https://www.usatoday.com/story/sports/soccer/2022/09/15/viewers-guide-for-this-years-world-cup-in-qatar/50737857/
