United Nations Secretary-General Antonio Guterres said the rules and conditions that prevent funds from being used to save Afghan lives must be suspended, saying "freezing temperatures and frozen assets are a lethal combination" for the people of Afghanistan. 

Talking at a press conference on January 13, Guterres once again warned that every Afghan could face acute poverty without a more concerted effort from the international community, saying that more than half of Afghanistan's population now depends on life-saving assistance. 

The secretary-general said that the United Nations' most considerable appeal for Afghanistan reflects the scale of despair in the country where the situation for every Afghan is deteriorating. 

"Just two days ago, the United Nations launched our largest ever humanitarian appeal for a single country, and the scale of that appeal reflects the scale of the despair, babies being sold to feed their siblings, freezing health facilities overflowing with malnourished children, people burning their possessions to keep warm, livelihoods from across the country have been lost," said Antonio Guterres. 

According to Guterres, the United Nations requires more than $5 billion this year to ramp up life-saving food and agriculture support, health services, treatment for malnutrition, emergency shelter, water and sanitation, protection, and emergency education. 

Guterres said that the function of Afghanistan's Central Bank must be preserved and assisted, and a path must be identified for the conditional release of Afghan foreign currency reserves. 

Pointing to the overdue salaries of civil servants in Afghanistan, he said that International funding should be allowed to pay public sector workers' salaries and help Afghan institutions deliver healthcare, education, and other vital services. 

He said that the United Nations is taking steps to inject cash into the economy through creative authorized arrangements. "But it is a drop in the bucket. We must do even more to rapidly inject liquidity into the economy and avoid a meltdown that would lead to poverty, hunger, and destitution for millions." 

The UN secretary-general called on the Islamic Emirate leadership to recognize and protect fundamental human rights, particularly the rights of women and girls.