After years of struggle in the Championship, there is a breath of fresh enthusiasm among the Toons. Following their back-to-back victories in the Premier League. Undoubtedly Newcastle was the bigwig of English football and produced legends like Shearer, Beardsley, Waddle, etc on a regular. But since their fall from grace, the people from Tyneside have suffered innumerable pain and also saw their club go from being "Title Contenders to Relegation Candidates." Also bearing the brunt of their stingy owner in Ashley-who sold a bogus dream and nearly led the Magpies to its demise. 

After numerous drawn-out attempts by the Saudi Public Investment Fund; to save Newcastle from its demise, their hard work finally paid dividends when Ashley finally decided to hand over the keys to PIF; and it did not come cheap. Since the takeover, the Saudi PIF has stayed true to its words and is doing everything in its power to "Make Newcastle Great Again."

The target for Newcastle this season would be to survive relegation. And to build on that momentum next season. Since coming into power, the PIF has made some pivotal decisions around the proper functioning of the club. They also relieved Steve Bruce of his duties and replaced him with a charismatic figure in Eddie Howe. Furthermore, they have also invested heavily in new recruits like Trippier, Guimaraes, Targett, etc. But most importantly the new owners seem to share the passion of the fans of this historic club. 

On the pitch, the Magpies are on the rise and are playing some of the best football under Howe. Their recent victory over a strong Aston Villa team, who have been spectacular under Gerrard, saw them rise to 17th in the league table. But most importantly, Newcastle are out of the relegation zone for the time being. The Magpies are unbeaten in their last three fixtures and in the process have scored five and only conceded one goal. The Investment made by the owners is also bearing fruit; with Trippier scoring the all-important winner against AVFC.After a decade of suffering, it is refreshing to see the jubilant celebrations and smiles returning to the Tyneside.