Sosamma Iype has been working in the area of conservation for the last 28 years.
She has been awarded Padmashri.
Her efforts to save the almost extinct Vechur cattle started while she was in the Kerala Agricultural University as a Professor of Animal Breeding and Genetics and continued after her retirement from the University in 2001 through the Vechur Conservation Trust, an NGO formed for the conservation of domestic animals and birds of Kerala.

Around the same time of the inception of the Vechur cattle project, Sosamma Iype became involved in conservation of a group of cattle in the Kasargod area. She named the cattle after the location they could be found and started conservation and research of this breed as well.

The case of Vechur Conservation is unique because it was started at a time when Government policy was totally against the native cattle. Sosamma Iype and her colleagues were met with skepticism from a number of groups due to the unfounded notion that they were trying to reintroduce an unproductive species. However, Sosamma Iype and her colleagues proved that the Vechur cow packs an incredible punch for such a small animal, requiring considerably smaller amounts of feed than its larger counterparts to produce even larger amounts of milk. This discovery brought about a change in the whole concept of animal husbandry, resulting from the success of the project and its popularity through sustainability and integration with agriculture, as well as acceptance from farmers. Vechur Conservation also played a role in substituting poisonous pesticides and chemical fertilisers. Following the success of this movement, the government has changed its policy now to support Native cattle.

This success was due to developing methods of sustainability.  The popularity of the Vechur cow among the farmers in Kerala and outside is mostly due to its heat tolerance, disease resistance, and adaptability. It is also due to the medicinal value attributed to the Vechur cow milk.

This had been the pioneer work on conserving a threatened breed of cattle in India and Sosamma Iype says that this was made possible due to the cooperation from her team of students.