Union Budget 2022 is paperless like the last year. Fiscal deficit for FY22 pegged at 6.9% of GDP. 

"We strive to provide necessary ecosystem for middle class. This Budget hopes to lay the foundation for Amrit Kal from India at 75 to India at 100," Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman said. 

Government is committed to reducing import and promote self reliance in defense sector. 

Digital rupee to be issued using blockchain and other technologies; to be issued by RBI starting 2022-23. This will give a big boost to the economy. 

To promote a shift to the use of public transport in urban areas…special mobility zones with zero fossil fuel policy to be introduced…Considering space constraints in urban areas, a ‘Battery Swapping Policy’ will be brought in. 

E-passports to be rolled out in FY22-23 to make processes easier. 

Border villages with sparse population and limited infrastructure to be covered under Vibrant Villages Programme. Housing, tourist centre, DTH etc to be provided. 

1-Class-1-TV Channel to be implemented to provide supplementary eduction to children to make up for loss of formal education due to Covid. 

Sitharaman had tabled the Economic Survey yesterday, which was centred around the theme of 'agile approach'.

The annual economic survey, released a day ahead of Union Budget 2022, said India will lead the world in economic growth at 8-8.5 per cent and concluded that it has the headroom to do spend more.

The budget comes days before elections in Uttar Pradesh and four other states, raising expectations of amped-up rural and agriculture spending.

Transfer of any virtual digital asset to be taxed at 30 per cent. Digital gifting will also be taxed from the recipient’s end. 

Tax deduction limit for state govt employees to NPS raised to 14% from 10%.

To provide an opportunity to correct an error, taxpayers can now file an updated return within 2 years from the relevant assessment year. 

75,000 compliances have been eliminated and 1,486 union laws repealed to make it easier for businesses. 

SEZ Act to be replaced with new legislation to enable states to become partners. 

Private industry to be encouraged to take up design etc of defence kit.