SK Sturm Graz and Midtjylland will be up against each other in their opening encounter of theEuropa League 2022-23. This will be a Group F match which will be played at the MerkurArena.

Midtjylland conceded 15 goals in their first 5 away Europa League games but have sincemanaged to keep consecutive clean sheets so far. Sturm Graz, on the other hand, have just an11% win rate in Europa League group games so far.

SK Sturm Graz vs Midtjylland Match Details

Match: SK Sturm Graz vs Midtjylland
Date and Time: 09th September, 08:00 pm UK (08/09), 08:00 pm Local (08/09), 12:30 am IST
Venue: Merkur Arena

SK Sturm Graz vs Midtjylland Probable Playing XI

SK Sturm Graz: Yobias Schützenauer (GK); Amadou Dante, Alexander Borkovic, GregoryWuthrich, Jusuf Gazibegovic; Alexander Prass, Jon Stankovic, Stefan Hierlander; Tomi Horvat,William Boving, Emanuel Emegha

Midtjylland: Jonas Lossl (GK); Paulinho, Juninho, Erik Sviatchenko, Joel Andersson; Evander,Kristoffer Olsson, Anders Dreyer; Pione Sisto, Sory Kaba, Gustav Isaksen

SK Sturm Graz vs Midtjylland Probable Winners

Midtjylland have not been in a good form in their domestic season so far and that can certainlyreflect on their performance when they travel to Sturm Graz. However, one thing that goes intheir favor is the fact that they have fared well away from home.

Sturm Graz, on the other hand, have had decent openings in their domestic circuit but on thecontrary have a poor record in European competitions at home, having lost 13 of the last 16matches. This fixture could well end in a tie.

Prediction: SK Sturm Graz 2-2 Midtjylland

SK Sturm Graz vs Midtjylland Live Stream

SK Sturm Graz vs Midtjylland will be live-streamed on SonyLIV. Indian fans can also stream thematch live on Jio TV. In Austria, The match will be televised on Servus TV. SKY Austriasubscribers will be able to watch the match online via the website or app. In Denmark, TV2 will
broadcast and live stream the games of the Europa League 2022-23 season.