Spurs, looking to shine in Europe have brought Ivan Perisic, Richarlison, Yves Bissouma, Fraser Forster, Clement Lenglet in for the upcoming season. 


Ivan Perisic

Croatian Perisic is coming from Inter Milan, where Spurs manager Antonio Conte was working before. Perisic is a flexible player, can be used up as second striker, attacking midfielder or winger. He has also performed full back duties too. 33 year old Perisic is coming with abundant experience, winning Champions league, Serie A, Bundesliga, and many other domestic trophies.


Richarlison

Stunning Brazilian is coming to Spurs from Everton. 25 year old forward was the top scorer for Everton in the previous season with 10 goals. Along With Kane and Son, the fast, strong, skilled Richarlison will add more fire power to the Spurs attack. Richarlison came to England as a Watford striker. He joined Everton in 2018, and has played 152(53 goals) matches.


Clement Lenglet

Centre back Lenglet is on loan from Barcelona. 27 year old French international was at Sevilla in two seasons before Barcelona. 


Yves Bissouma

Bissouma is midfielder, previously playing for Brighton. 25 year old Mali International has played 112 matches for Brighton. Before coming to England, he was in France with Lille. 

Djed Spence

The 21 year old English, Spence played a vital role in Nottingham Forest's promotion winning side, and was featured in both the EFL Championship Team of the Season and the PFA Championship team of the season. 

Spence was awarded the EFL Championship Player of the Month award for March 2022 as well as being nominated for the Goal of the Month award following his long range strike against Queens Park Rangers which he was ultimately awarded. Having also been nominated for the Championship Young Player of the Season, Spence made it a hat-trick of awards for March 2022 when he won the EFL Young Player of the Month award for the second time in his career.


Fraser Forster

The 34 year old English goalkeeper joined Spurs from Southampton. After spending 2 years at Celtic on loan, he played 19 matches for Southampton in the previous season.