The semi-final stage of the FIFA Club World Cup will kick off from today with South American champions, and Brazilian football giants Palmeiras locking horns against African Club champions Al Ahly. The second semi-final pits current European Champions Chelsea against Asian champions Al Hilal.

While Chelsea appear to be the overwhelming favourite in a competition they last played way back in 2012, Palmeiras will be hoping to go one step further and reach the finals, after getting knocked out of the semis in the previous edition. With Al Ahly and Al Hilal in the mix, we could expect some entertaining twists and turns in this edition of the tournament.

Palmeiras have expressed their desire to win the whole thing and end a long standing dominance of The trophy being won by the Champions league winners. The last time a Non-European team won the club World Cup was when Corinthians upset Chelsea in 2012. The Club World Cup has always had an increased sense of reverence in South American clubs, and Palmeiras will be Hoping to showcase that passion into winning performances which will lead them to glory.

Chelsea, on the other hand will looking to win the trophy after losing out on the title in 2012, which incidentally is the only time they played in this competition previously. Manager Thomas Tuchel has spoken about his excitement of participating in the competition and calling it an "extraordinary trophy". By winning this trophy, Chelsea will be hoping to bring a certain sense of relevance to a trophy that has dropped down in terms of significance in Europe. 

The other two participants, Al Ahly and Al Hilal will be Hoping to upset the narrative against the powerhouses, proving that they should not be looked down at, while also becoming a beacon of progress in terms of footballing ability for their respective confederations. 

All in all this promises to be a cracking tournament for the football fans to savour. Who will emerge victorious to become the ultimate club champions?. Your guess is as good as mine.