Jessica Chastain won the title for Best Actor in the 94th Academy Awards for her role in The Eyes of Tammy Faye, where she uses her talkshow to reframe the relationship between Christianity and LGBTQI+ folks.

This award intersects with a record-breaking number of legislative attacks against transgender folks, putting more than 58,000 transgender youth at risk of losing access to lifesaving healthcare.

“So many people out there feel hopelessness and they feel alone. And suicide is a leading cause of death in the United States. It's touched many families. It's touched mine. And especially members of the LGBTQ community, who oftentimes feel out of place with their peers. We're faced with discriminatory and bigoted legislation that is sweeping our country with the only goal of further dividing us,” Chastain said in her speech.

Trans youth know who they are, and this legislation is putting lives at risk: More than half of trans children are at risk of suicide, and access to gender-affirming care is linked to lower risk of attempting suicide by nearly 40 percent in transgender and nonbinary youth.

Queer and trans youth’s healthcare and safety is being debated in the courts through copy-pasted legislative attacks coordinated by Republicans who are attacking a children’s ability to survive, out of a thirst for votes.

This past year was the worst year on record for the number of trans people killed in hate crimes -- at least 375 trans and gender-diverse people have been reported murdered, 96 percent were trans women and femme people.

“I’m inspired by [Tammy’s] radical acts of love. We’ve talked about love a lot. And I’m inspired by her compassion, and I see it as a guiding principle that leads us forward. And it connects us all in the desire that we want to be accepted for who we are, accepted for who we love, and to live a life without the fear of violence or terror. And for any of you out there who do in fact feel hopeless or alone, I just not you to know you are unconditionally loved for the uniqueness that is you,” Chastain said.