Spat between Russia’s space agency Roscosmos and its international partners is becoming a regular affair after Western nations imposed sanctions on Russia over its invasion of Ukraine. Immediately after the sanctions were announced by the US President Joe Biden, including those targeted to “degrade Russia’s aerospace industry and space programmes'', Dmitry Rogozin, head of Roscosmos, retorted that if US blocked cooperation with them, the International Space Station (ISS), the flying space lab, can be made to crash from the orbit.

ISS has been a symbol of co-operation between the US, its ally nations, and the former Soviet Russia despite the mutual animosity during the Cold War. Astronauts and cosmonauts have peacefully spent years in the unique orbiting lab. At the moment, four astronauts from NASA, two cosmonauts from Russia and one astronaut from Europe are stationed at ISS.

But the end of such peaceful cohabitation is getting hastened after the Ukraine war. Within a week of the outburst, Rogozin posted a tweet celebrating removal of flags from partner nations from Russian rockets, claiming the vehicles looked “more beautiful” without them. Soon after this, NASA astronaut Scott Kelly, who has spent months in the ISS, responded with a barb via Twitter that without those flags, the Russian space agency would lose valuable foreign exchange and Rogozin may have to “find a job at McDonald’s if McDonald’s still exists in Russia”, surviving US sanctions.

Shortly before the barbs were exchanged, a deal between Roscosmos and British internet company Oneweb fell flat. Oneweb was poised to launch an array of satellites into the low-orbit of space, using Russia’s rocket Soyuz, to provide high-speed internet connectivity to all corners of Earth. Rogozin imposed two conditions on the launch – first, the British government withdrew its investment from the project and second, the satellites couldn’t be used for military purposes. OneWeb refused to abide by these conditions and the launch was cancelled. 

The hostilities are expected to worsen as Russia has decided not to launch any more satellites of their “enemy” nations or sell any rocket engine to them. 

READ MORE: 

https://www.newsweek.com/scott-kelly-russia-roscosmos-dmitry-rogozin-mcdonalds-twitter-1685450

https://www.space.com/rogozin-roscomos-scott-kelly-twitter-russia-invasion-ukraine

https://www.vice.com/en/article/3ab4vb/find-a-job-a-at-mcdonalds-astronauts-roast-head-of-russias-space-agency