Five Pakistani soldiers were killed on Sunday after alleged militants from inside Afghanistan opened fire on troops in Northern Pakistan bordering with Afghanistan. "Terrorists from inside Afghanistan, across the international border, opened fire on Pakistani troops in Kurram district," said a statement from the Pakistani armed forces' publicity wing, Inter-Services Public Relations (ISPR). (https://www.aljazeera.com/news/2022/2/6/firing-from-afghanistan-kills-five-pakistan-troops-pakistan-army)

Although the Pakistan army claimed that several terrorists were killed in its retaliation, there are no reports of the casualties from the other side. Pakistan media has been critical of the Afghan Taliban, saying that it has either failed to control the militants on its side of the border or support them actively. 

The incident comes on the heels of yet another attack by militants in Western Pakistan with Afghanistan. There were several casualties on both sides, according to reports from Pakistan.

Ever since the Taliban took over Afghanistan, there has been hope in Pakistan that Islamists operating from Afghanistan would be controlled as the relations between the Taliban and the Pakistan Military have always been considered close. But there were also fears that Islamist militant groups within Pakistan would get encouraged because of the Taliban's success in Afghanistan. The Tehreek-i-Taliban Pakistan is one of the most active militant groups in Pakistan with deep roots in Afghanistan and it has been at the forefront of attacks. (https://www.dawn.com/news/1673635/pakistan-strongly-condemns-use-of-afghan-soil-by-terrorists-after-5-soldiers-martyred-in-kurram)

The Afghan Taliban played the mediator's role during a month-long ceasefire two months back, when the talks between Pakistan and TTP were on. But the talks failed and the terror attacks have been resumed.

On its part, Afghan Taliban have vowed that they will not tolerate attacks against Pakistan, but nothing much has happened on the ground. 

Although it has been believed for long that Pakistan has an enormous influence on the Taliban as many leaders of the militant group stayed in the country, Pakistan has always denied having an overwhelming influence. 

The recent militant attacks just prove that the relations between the two countries may remain tense for months to come.

Read more:

Is a rift between Pakistan and the Afghan Taliban imminent?:
https://www.aljazeera.com/opinions/2022/2/6/a-rift-between-pakistan-and-the-afghan-taliban-may-be-imminent

The evolution of the Taliban in Pakistan:
https://carnegieendowment.org/2021/12/21/evolution-and-future-of-tehrik-e-taliban-pakistan-pub-86051