Nico Schlotterbeck (born 1 December 1999) is a German professional footballer who plays as a center-back for Bundesliga club SC Freiburg and the German national team.


On 31 July 2020, Schlotterbeck joined Union Berlin on a one-year loan. After the loan finished he joined SC Freiburg.


 For most teams, central defenders are the starting point of their attack and need to be accomplished on the ball both through dribbling and passing.

 

As more teams adopt high-pressing systems, they need to be capable of resisting pressure from the opposition when in deep build-up, mobile enough to cover in behind if the press is broken, and aerially dominant to stop the opposition from playing over the top. 

 

Given the variety and difficulty of these tasks, talented center-backs are seemingly always in high demand. As such, it’s no doubt that various clubs are interested in acquiring Freiburg’s 22-year old Nico Schlotterbeck. 

Schottlebeck can play both as a central midfielder, a left back and a defensive midfielder. 


In 51 matches, which he played, he has scored 3 goals. In the 2021/22 season he has scored 2 goals aerially.

He has 12 shots on target. He has created 10 big chances and he has an expected goal of 3.17. He ranks 99 percentile on both total shots and shots on target.

In possession, Schlotterbeck is an effective progressor of the ball both through his carrying and passing, with him ranking 4.50 in progressive carries and 4.10 in progressive passes per 90. 

That’s not to say that average possession is the only way to contextualize a player’s performance with the ball. Nevertheless, it shows how the German is putting up relatively impressive numbers despite having fewer opportunities to use the ball than many of his contemporaries. 

 

It’s worth noting that Schlotterbeck is his team’s primary outlet for progressing the play and, in some instances, can even be a creative outlet.


He is good with progressive passes with him ranking 87 percentile and he ranks 85 percentile in passes which leads the probability of shot or goal.

Click on the following link to read the whole story :

 https://link.medium.com/AuOALQcaonb