Dinesh Khatik, state minister of Uttar Pradesh for the Jal Shakti department, is rumoured to be thinking about leaving the Yogi administration. The Yogi Adityanath cabinet has refuted these rumours, nevertheless. According to reports, PWD Minister Jitin Prasada is also angry with the government for transferring his staff on special duty (OSD).

As per reports, Khatik is upset over the transfers in his department and the FIR against his supporters in Hastinapur. Minister Swatantra Dev Singh is in charge of the division. , Khatik has left his official home and vehicle and relocated to his private home in Hastinapur.
Khatik's resignation rumours have been declared a rumour by ACS communications specialist Navneet Sehgal.

As for the transfer of his OSD Anil Kumar Pandey, whom the state has sent back to the Center, Jitin Prasad is also upset with the state government.
Till late on Tuesday night, both minister's phone was off.

The Yogi Adityanath administration took action against the Public Works Department earlier this month after a three-person inquiry committee, made up of the chief secretary Durga Shankar Mishra, additional chief secretary for the home, Awanish Awasthi, and additional chief secretary for sugar industries and excise, Sanjay R. Bhoosreddy, discovered transfers were given to engineers and officials in lieu of money. In its investigation report, the panel charged Anil Kumar Pandey.

In order to discuss the issue, Jitin Prasada is set to travel to Delhi on Wednesday and meet with Home Minister Amit Shah.
Despite attending the Yogi cabinet meeting on Tuesday, Jitin Prasada chose not to speak to the media.

The Public Works Department (PWD) head was among five senior officers who were suspended by the Uttar Pradesh government on Tuesday due to alleged major irregularities in departmental transfers. The Public Works Department (PWD) Head and Chief Engineer Manoj Gupta were among the five officials who were suspended as a result of transfer irregularities in the department.