Upon its release, Dead Space changed the whole nature of horror and survival games with its bone chilling atmosphere, graphic violence, creepy disgusting enemies, awesome story and overall mechanics which forced the player to be attentive, careful, think and observe so that they can scrounge for resources such as medpacks, nodes and ammo in order to stay alive. 

With Dead Space getting a remake, another upcoming game needs to be looked at and that is The Callisto Protocol which is the brainchild of Glen Schofield, the co director of Dead Space. 

According to the developers at Striking Distance Studios, the game aims to be significantly darker than the three Dead Space titles with even more violence and a greater focus on melee combat. If the Necromorphs were disgusting, then the creatures here are worse, being outright horrifying to look at.

In its comparison with Dead Space, Schofield said "It's got some pretty horrific moments, it really does. We have a gore engine - we built Gore technology. It's a lot of rendering, and you break up the characters into jumps, cut them up with bones sticking out and all that. Then the rendering guys, they do their special thing to it which is make everything look wet. And so every character had to be done that way - and however you go at it, chunks break off, or parts of the face, parts of the head. It's so advanced compared to Dead Space."

Ever since the game’s reveal, it has slowly been unloading some information from time to time. Storywise, The Callisto Protocol set in 2320 and takes place in a prison colony called Black Iron, which is located on Jupiter’s moon Callisto.

 Taking on the role of one of the prisoners, Jacob Lee, the player finds themselves being caught in a bloobath of a battle between other inmates that have transformed into monstrous creatures. The atmosphere is dark, claustrophobic and extremely haunting, plus the game is running on Unreal Engine 5, adding to its beauty.

 The Callisto Protocol is set to launch simultaneously for PS5, PS4, PC, Xbox One, and Xbox Series X on December 2 this fall.