Since news broke this morning of Shinzo Abe's shooting, people have been asking the same question: how could this have happened in Japan?

The identity of the victim only makes the news more shocking.

Shinzo Abe may no longer be Japan's prime minister, but he's still a huge figure in Japanese public life, and probably the most recognisable Japanese politician of the last three decades.

Who would want to kill Abe? And why?

Any Japanese resident will attest that people don't think of violent crime in Japan. Yes, there are the Yakuza, Japan's famously violent organised crime gangs. But most people never come in to contact with them. Even the Yakuza shy away from guns because the penalties for illegal possession are just not worth it.

Owning a gun in Japan is extremely difficult. It requires no criminal record, mandatory training, psychological evaluation, and extensive background checks including police interviewing neighbours.

Consequently, gun crime virtually doesn't exist there. On average, there are fewer than 10 gun-related deaths in Japan each year. In 2017, there were just three.

Little wonder then that much of the attention has been focused on the gunman and the weapon he used. 

Who is he? Where did he get the gun from? Japanese media is reporting that the 41-year-old is a former member of the country's self-defence forces, the equivalent of an army. But closer inspection shows he only spent three years in the navy. The gun he used is more curious. Pictures of it lying on the ground after the shooting show what looks like a home-made weapon. Two bits of steel pipe stuck together with black gaffer tape, with some sort of handmade trigger. It looks like something fashioned from plans downloaded off the internet. 

Given how safe Japan is, security there is very relaxed. During election campaigns, like the ongoing one, politicians literally stand on street corners giving speeches and shaking hands with shoppers and passers-by.

It's almost certainly why Abe's attacker was able to get so close and discharge the weapon he had cobbled together. That surely has to change after today.