Vfl Bochum and Eintracht Frankfurt will be up against each other on Matchday 09 of the Bundesliga 2022-23. Bochum are at the 18th position in the Bundesliga points table while Eintracht Frankfurt sit at the 6th position in the points table.
Vfl Bochum have been the poorest side in terms of quality performances this season in the Bundesliga 2022/23 season. They are currently in the relegation zone and they have won no games, drawn a game, and lost 7 games in the 8 matches that they have played.
Eintracht Frankfurt, on the other hand, have taken good strides in the league so far. In the 8 games that they have played this season, they have won 4 games, drawn a couple of games and have been on the losing end a couple of times.
Vfl Bochum vs Eintracht Frankfurt Match Details
Match: Vfl Bochum vs Eintracht Frankfurt
Date and Time: 08th October, 02:30 pm UK, 03:30 pm Local, 07:00 pm IST
Venue: Vonovia Ruhrstadion
Vfl Bochum vs Eintracht Frankfurt Probable Playing XI
Vfl Bochum: Manuel Riemann; Tim Oermann, Ivan Ordets, Jannes Horn; Cristian Gamboa, Anthony Losilla, Jacek Goralski, Patrick Osterhage, Danilo Soares; Simon Zoller, Gerritt Holtmann
Eintracht Frankfurt: Kevin Trapp; Evan Ndicka, Makoto Hasebe, Tuta; Christopher Lenz, Djibril Sow, Sebastian Rode, Ansgar Knauff; Daichi Kamada, Kolo Muani, Jesper Lindstrom
Vfl Bochum vs Eintracht Frankfurt Probable Winners
Vfl Bochum have been a disappointment for their fans throughout the Bundesliga 2022/23 season. Although they will be playing this game in front of their home fans, Frankfurt are too good a team to get past through and hence, we expect the visitors to clinch this tie.
Prediction: Vfb Bochum 0-2 Eintracht Frankfurt
Vfl Bochum vs Eintracht Frankfurt Live Stream
Vfl Bochum vs Eintracht Frankfurt will be televised on the Sony Sports Network in India. Indian Fans can live-stream the match on the Sony LIV app. In Germany, fans can tune in to DAZN and SKY Sports for the live telecast and live streaming of Bundesliga matches.