A Queenland fitness coach has revealed how you can recreate an American classic – but for a fraction of the calorie intake.

Bec Hardgrave is known for her “fakeaway” recipes on social media, regularly sharing videos with fans on how to make iconic fast-food items – including a low calorie Big Mac and KFC fried chicken – at home.

Most recently, the social media star shared her recipe for In-N-Out Burger’s Double Double burger that she claims comes in at 190 calories less than the real version.

Bec, who recently visited the US, revealed she was so disappointed by the cult burger chain during her trip, she decided to make one herself – detailing how she did it on TikTok.

“Let’s make an In-N-Out Double Double fakeaway,” she says in the video on her tiktok.

Bec sliced a quarter of a brown onion and cooked it in a hot pan until caramelised before removing.

She then moved onto the patties, using 120g of extra lean mince at only 5 per cent fat.

Bec said the best way to recreate the fast-food patties was to have them rolled into balls before flattening them with a spatula in the frying pan.

She added a teaspoon of American mustard on each side as she flipped them.

Next she put the bun halves in the pan to toast while topping each meat patty with half a slice of smoked cheese.

Bec then put the onions and stacked the patties on top of each other.

She made the sauce using four ingredients – 30g of light mayo, 15g of sugar-free tomato sauce and 5g each of American mustard and pickle relish.

She then assembled the burger, adding some sauce to the bun then stacking pickles, lettuce, tomato, and the patties and onion.

“It’s 480 calories and 36g of protein. Enjoy guys,” she said. The original burger from In-N-Out is 670 calories.”

Many were keen on giving the recipe a go.

“Looks great. I’m going to try it,” one person said.

Another called Bec a “lifesaver” for sharing it.

While In-N-Out isn’t available in Australia, there have been many pop-ups for it that have been wildly successful.