Australia's future nuclear submarine plans are expected to be unveiled early next year, with the government also looking to detail its moves to fix a looming capability gap.

Defence Minister Richard Marles is working to announce by March which nuclear submarine Australia will acquire, in line with the original 18-month time frame set out when the AUKUS partnership was first revealed last year.  

Within nine months, Labor also hopes to know whether an "interim" conventionally powered submarine fleet is needed to bridge the gap between the retirement of the Collins class and the arrival of nuclear-powered boats.

The Morrison government had previously suggested a decision on nuclear-powered submarines could be brought forward to before the end of this year.

But Mr Marles said that suggestion was "optimistic in the extreme" and it is clear the former government's plan would have delivered submarines by the 2040s.

"We will be looking at every option available to try and bring that time forward," he said. 

"I think bringing that time forward to eight years from now would be extremely optimistic."

In recent weeks, numerous retired defence figures have warned Australia needs a so-called "son of Collins" fleet because the country will be left exposed before the AUKUS submarines are due to enter service in the 2040s. 

Last week, outgoing Navy Chief Vice Admiral Mike Noonan said a new class of submarines to be built as an "interim" capability could not be ruled out.

"I think we're going to see a period of study and reflection and we're going to look at all options, so I don't rule out any decision that our government might make with respect to realising our future navy capabilities," Vice Admiral Noonan said.

On Tuesday, Mr Marles announced the surprise decision to extend the terms of Australia's Defence Chief, Vice Chief of Defence and Chief of Joint Operations by two years, in part to help oversee the massive naval project. 

Read more
https://www.abc.net.au/news/2022-06-29/richard-marles-defence-projects-submarines-aukus/101190876