Who did Paris Saint-Germain lost to in the latest Ligue 1 tie? Officially, the stunning 3-1 defeat came against Nantes. PSG are livid, their coach and director blamed the referee Mikael Lesage for his alleged inconsistent supervision. But to those, who followed the encounter with an impartial mind, there was no villain on the pitch, rather a hero, whose positive impact should be acknowledged first. Had not Nantes goalkeeper Alban Lafont made some brilliant saves, PSG would have salvaged at least a point from the match. Fresh from the morale-boosting Champions League first leg victory over Real Madrid, PSG coach Mauricio Pochettino named all of Lionel Messi, Mbappe and Neymar in his starting XI for the first time in three months, but none of them could beat the 23-year-old under the Nantes bar. All three had their share of chances, but Lafont stood firm under the bar. With the World Cup later this year in Qatar, the Nantes custodian has a positive chance of making the French squad; at 23, he has already spent seven seasons in top class football. It is said the Barcelona boss Xavi Hernandez is keen on recruiting the Frenchman for the next season. 
PSG should seriously look in the reasons behind the unexpected defeat instead of trying to find a scapegoat. True, PSG earned six yellow cards against 10 fouls, while Nantes received only two after committing 16 fouls, but that wasn’t the end of the story. Did the referee interfere when Kylian Mbappe missed an easy chance? Or was the man in black shirt at fault when Neymar failed to convert a spot kick? There is a good chance the PSG took things rather lightly and lost focus. A 0-3 deficit at the half time is something unheard of in PSG history in recent years and they were truly rattled. The only consolation is that it didn’t make much of a difference to the league table. With 13 points ahead of Marseille, the Parisians are still expected to be the runaway winners of the title. Yet, it is time the star-studded side learned their lesson.