I became a member or the Community Management Committee and later a
Single Window Forum member.
As the first step, the CMC decided to meet the Municipal Corporation for
addressing the issue of clogged and dilapidated sewer lines as a result of which
there was water logging in the basin and water sources were contaminated. If
took us two weeks but the officials responded positively and the sewer lines
were renovated. In the same week, the community toilet management and
Ceanliness was also strengthened. We have now maintained a community
register in which we record the sanitation concerns of the settlements which
we collected from members and the CMC members write applications, or make telephonic or online complaints to MC. Most
community members support us to follow up with nodal officers .
All or us cooperate with them and keep them informed or any
problem we are facing
With the help of CFAR, we secured pension, Palanhar
and labour cards for most vulnerable households in the
settlement. To do this we made a map of the basti and marked HHs where elderly, single women, disabled and ill family members live. Even in the CommunityManagement Committee many members are disabled
and come from very poor families so securing social entitlements Is one or the key  areas where we support members in-the slum. 
Now with the spread or Coronavirus Infection ourresponsibility has increased two-fold as we have to take
ensure that all of us take collective responsibility for
preventing any kind of infection. 
The SWF-CMC
members are training women to make masks, wear
them properly and conducting one to one meetings to
inform members on how to wash hands using the correct techniques, visit the health centre in case of any illness
Especially for the most vulnerable HHs we ensured delivery of cooked food through doorstep delivery. The CMC members have
designated one member in every lane to deliver food packets to these families. They also support persons with disability maintaining hand hygiene and keep using toilets .