Could you find 10 minutes in your day to increase your physical activity? It might be lifesaving, according to a new study.

More than 110,000 US deaths could be prevented each year if adults over 40 added 10 minutes of daily moderate to vigorous physical activity to their normal routines, according to the study published Monday in the journal JAMA Internal Medicine.

An increase of 20 or 30 minutes could lead to even more lives saved, the study noted.

were to exercise just a bit more each day, a large number of deaths could be prevented each year," said Pedro Saint-Maurice, the study's first author and an epidemiologist at the National Cancer Institute, via email.

The study used accelerator data the National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey recorded from participants ages 6 and older between 2003 and 2006. Researchers then looked at the activity levels of nearly 5,000 participants ages 40 to 85 and tracked death rates through the end of 2015.

The method used to conduct the study was rigorous, said Peter Katzmarzyk, professor of pediatric obesity and associate executive director for population and public health sciences at Louisiana State University's Pennington Biomedical Research Center.

How to get your 10 more minutes

Daily exercise is not just for gym rats, said Dana Santas, a CNN fitness contributor and mind-body coach for professional athletes.

"Fitting in ten minutes of exercise every day is so much easier than people think. Consider how fast ten minutes goes by when you're mindlessly scrolling social media or watching your favorite TV show," Santas said in an email. "It's not a big time investment, but it can deliver big health benefits."

Walking outside or on a treadmill is one of the best and simplest ways to bring consistent physical activity into your life, Santas said.

Yoga, for those who are practiced at it and those less so, is another great option, with the added benefits of stress relief and the ease of online access to all levels of instruction, Santas said.

Read more- https://amp.cnn.com/cnn/2022/01/24/health/exercise-10-minutes-deaths-prevented-wellness/index.html