Rogue Games Inc. has released a new gameplay trailer for their upcoming Lovecraftian metroidvania game ‘The Last Case of Benedict Fox’. The new 3 minute trailer gives us a closer look at this curious mix of creepy gothic horror with classic metroidvania style.
 
Rogue Games has provided the following synopsis for the game: “In 1925 Boston, self-proclaimed detective Benedict Fox must uncover the fate of a family while traversing a dark, eerie world of emotions made manifest while battling the demon trapped inside his own body. Face an occult order and filthy demons in tactical and rewarding combat, explore the realm of the arcane, and unravel the disturbing secrets of a tragic family. The Last Case of Benedict Fox will immerse players in a rich story with engaging Metroidvania style combat and exploration, all in a breathtaking high fidelity art style.”
 
 
 ‘The Last Case of Benedict Fox’ combines murder and combat  in eloquent ways making you fight and figure your way out of complex puzzles through a mysterious mansion to find out what was behind the deaths that occurred within its walls. The combat of the game entails careful timing comprising doges, counters and parries as well as using knife blows and gunshots, to defeat the enemies within.
 
Crucial to progressing is an alternative reality called Limbo that you can access as you explore. This lets you enter the memories of the people murdered inside the building and use the secrets and items you find inside to push deeper into the haunted halls. 
 
To aid you in your challenges, the players can call on help from people like Harry Houdini and a tattoo artist for items and upgrades, respectively. Houdini sells useful tools like smoke bombs or flashlights, and even kogai pins which can be used as a lockpicks to prize apart the hideous fingernail teeth locks that occasionally block your way. The tattoos, on the other hand, can mark Benedict's arms with symbols that enhance and expand his eldritch powers.
 
The Last Case of Benedict Fox is due out for Xbox Series, Xbox One, and PC in spring 2023.
 
 
 