Manchester United have announced the signing of Maya Le Tissier. Le Tissier joins the Red Devils from Brighton & Hove Albion on a contract until the end of the 2024/25 season.

On Monday, Tom Garry of The Telegraph reported that United had triggered Le Tiessier’s release clause. Tom also mentioned that the transfer fee would be between £50,000 - £60,000. 

The right-back who turned 20 in April becomes Manchester United Women’s fourth signing of the 2022 summer window. The Red Devils announced the departures of long-serving full-backs Martha Harris and Kirsty Smith recently and were left with only two senior full-backs in their ranks - Ona Batlle and Hannah Blundell. But Maya’s addition definitely bolsters Marc Skinner’s squad. Emma Sanders of the BBC has reported that Manchester City and Chelsea had also shown interest. 

Le Tissier hails from the island of Guernsey but isn’t related to Southampton legend Matt Le Tissier who coincidentally is also from Guernsey. In an interview with Molly McElwee of The Telegraph, Maya did mention that her dad Darren and Matt are good friends. 

Maya played for St Martin’s all-boys youth teams and a girls’ team in Hampshire. She became the first female to play for Guernsey’s U-16s (boys). She has represented England at the U-17, U-19 and U-23 levels. 

Maya on joining United: “The ambition and values of the club suit me as a person and it’s a very exciting project here that I want to be a part of.”

In Le Tissier, United have signed a fantastic player who has played over 50 games in the WSL and has been managed by Hope Powell. Hope is considered a fantastic coach and manager and has over 20 years of management experience, having managed the England national women’s team, the Great Britain women’s football Olympic team and Brighton & Hove Albion in the WSL.

Marc Skinner on Le Tissier's signature: “Maya is a player that we have been monitoring for a while, and as expected she is developing into one of the brightest young players in the country."