  Released in 1989, Streetcleaner by Birmingham based industrial metal juggernauts Godflesh is a timeless classic and one of the all time greatest albums ever written. 

Dark, heavy, brooding, sterile and violent, Streetcleaner can be considered one of the earliest examples of extreme metal and it really paved the way for both industrial metal as well as for the avant-garde scene in metal to grow and innovate itself.

Using drum machines, repetitive dark and heavy riffs, sterile production, Streetcleaner is all around haunting and filled with hate towards humanity, culminating into what can only be called a symphony of nightmares. 

From the get go, Streetcleaner is not about the lyrics and by design very little actually makes sense here, rather it is more about the imagery as the atmosphere is bleak, nihilistic and almost frighteningly empty.

At times aggressive, the heavy doomy riffs and industrial drums hide a subtle but noticeable sense of melancholy, underlying deep sorrow, anger and hate. Even now, metal bands struggle to match the horrifying sense of dread this album produces.

The only connecting factor that binds the different songs on the record into the album is the overall flatness that lies in the center of every song. 

The minimalist, stale drum patterns and repetitive, heavy, psychedelic riffs, drony bass and abrasive vocals create a sense of deliberate torment that gives you vibes of pure lifelessness, almost like a nuclear disaster enveloped the area.

 Streetcleaner is the literal sonic definition of hell being a monolith of mechanical dance beats, electronic drums and dark and heavy riffs, alongside a tense and bleak atmospheric experience. 

Nonetheless in that same vein it is also a pioneering effort showing a remarkable level of creativity which Godflesh have never been able to recapture despite throwing in a myriad of several brilliant albums on the way. 

Streetcleaner is also ethereal being extremely tortured and misanthropic, culminating in a sense of violent and dark cold full of despair making it one of the heaviest metal albums of all time.