by Chitra Subramaniam

If Maltese investigative journalist Daphne Caruana Galizia were alive today, she would be digging out irrefutable documentary evidence against corrupt Russian oligarchs who have made Malta and other European countries their playground. Her blog ‘Running Commentary’ would be the place to go to for all in search of justice and dignity. It would also be the space dreaded by the corrupt, wondering when she would write about them. Caruana Galizia would have stopped at nothing to follow the money trail to ensure the guilty would be brought to book. Now.

She would, at the same time, ensure that refugees fleeing the war in Ukraine would find safe passage and succour if not in her country than certainly somewhere in Europe. She was a true European who worked and died for the ideals that hold the continent – democracy and liberty – together.

She would find time to play with her grandchildren, probably telling them stories of valour, love and human dignity between stringing beads, making colourful paper toys and baking cupcakes.

If.

It was that ‘if’ that so terrorised the Maltese government that they murdered her.

Months of European and international outrage eventually forced Maltese Prime Minister Joseph Muscat to resign, but justice evades Daphne and her family. Their formidable work to seek justice is being pushed back by layers of corruption and cronyism in Europe that rears its ugly head from behind every piece of law and process that keeps the continent together as much as it tests it at every twist and turn.

Her blog spared no one. At one time, it had more readers than all Maltese newspapers put together, testifying to the simple fact that she was speaking to all of us and for all of us, so we believed in our pursuit of truth and justice in our lives and democracies.

At the time of her assassination, Caruana Galizia was investigating the Panama Papers in Malta. Mother, anchor, wife, friend, blogger, a moral compass and a formidable opponent to all who underestimated her, Daphne became larger than life for those who sought to silence her.

Read the full story here:- https://theprobe.in/the-woman-who-died-protecting-free-media-her-story-cuts-new-ground-in-journalism-worldover/