So how does dental health affect mental health ? 

Yes our dental health can affect our mental health and it also speaks for our overall health. Psychologist Susan Albers, PsyD, says that “When your oral health is suffering, it can decrease the quality of your life or exacerbate mental health issues,” 

“If you feel embarrassed about the health of your teeth, you may notice that this triggers some social anxiety. You may withdraw. Or it may hurt your self-esteem. This can lead to an increase in some of your mental health symptoms.” 

The other way round where you mental health can affect our dental health is also true, especially it affects the health of the teeth and gums. When we are under stress, we tend to ignore our dental hygiene. Dr. Albers says that about how dental health plays a role in the stress we face. “It gives a clue about your stress level, your anxiety, your mood and the presence of chronic eating problems.”  

What dental health tells us about mental health 

Especially when one feels anxious or depressed it can be very dofficult to do the simplest things like taking care of yourself and even doing small things. “You may not have the motivation or the energy to attend to dental hygiene,” says Dr. Albers. “You might also have an increase in the perception of pain and avoid the dentist.” 

So when we face difficulty eventually there would be a decline in maintaining healthy routines and this is when our mouths and teeth give many clues about some potential mental health issues. “If you have anxiety, you may notice that you grind your teeth at night or experience jaw pain,” says Dr. Albers. “Worn enamel may also be a very big red flag that you are experiencing high levels of anxiety or stress.” 

People who live with obsessive-compulsive disorder or bipolar disorder have a chance of worn enamel. 
“You might brush your teeth several times a day,” Dr. Albers notes. “It becomes more of a ritual than a cleaning procedure.” 

Sources - https://www.google.com/amp/s/health.clevelandclinic.org/link-between-dental-health-and-mental-health/amp/