After being the sole survivor of a plane crash in Peru, Juliane Koepcke spent 11 days in the jungle clawing her way back to civilization.

Juliane Koepcke had no idea what was in store for her when she boarded LANSA Flight 508 on Christmas Eve in 1971.

The 17-year-old was traveling with her mother from Lima, Peru to the eastern city of Pucallpa to visit her father, who was working in the Amazonian Rainforest. She had received her high school diploma the day before the flight and had planned to study zoology like her parents.

But then, the hour-long flight turned into a nightmare when a massive thunderstorm sent the small plane hurtling into the trees. “Now it’s all over,” Koepcke recalls hearing her mother say. The next thing she knew, she was falling from the plane and into the canopy below.

Dizzy with a concussion and the shock of the experience, Koepcke could only process basic facts. She knew she had survived a plane crash and she couldn’t see very well out of one eye. With a broken collarbone and a deep gash on her calf, she slipped back into unconsciousness.

It took half a day for Koepcke to fully get up. At first, she set out to find her mother but was unsuccessful. On the way, however, Koepcke had come across a small well. Though she was feeling hopeless at this point, she remembered her father’s advice to follow water downstream as that’s was where civilization would be.

Koepcke began her arduous journey down stream. Sometimes she walked, sometimes she swam. On the fourth day of her trek, she came across three fellow passengers still strapped to their seats. They had landed head first into the ground with such force that they were buried three feet with their legs sticking straight up in the air.

After 11 harrowing days along in the jungle, Koepcke was saved by 3 Peruvian loggers.

After she was treated for her injuries, Koepcke was reunited with her father. It was then that she learned her mother had also survived the initial fall, but died soon afterward due to her injuries.