Coverage of students in Afghanistan under Taliban control and strictures on girls' clothing is increasing every day.

"With these restrictions, the Taliban want us to drop out voluntarily," said one teacher, who said the Taliban had placed him in a spy school.

By taking control of Afghanistan in August 2021, the Taliban closed girls 'schools above grade 6, but local pressure forced the reopening of secondary schools and girls' high schools in nine provinces. However, some of the schools reopened after the Taliban did not fulfill their promise to reopen all schools at the beginning of the school year.

Balkh province in northern Afghanistan is still unique in terms of girls 'education: high schools and girls' high schools have remained open in the province since the Taliban took power.

But the challenge facing the students and teachers of these schools is the strictness that applies to girls' clothing.
The ombudsman says school principals in Balkh and elsewhere have been warned they will close schools if they do not follow the rules of dress code.

A school in Balkh was closed for several days due to the appearance of a number of students.

Officials at another school shared a voice message from a Taliban official urging the school principal to fire a teacher because of his "inappropriate" hijab.

According to the report, a school has made a teacher responsible for "enjoining what is good and forbidding what is evil."

Another teacher told Human Rights Watch that the situation with the hijab was getting worse by the day. He added that the Taliban had hired them as spies. If students or teachers do not observe the hijab required by the Taliban, teachers and students will be expelled without any discussion.

"We are not allowed to fasten our belts. Our sleeves should be wide enough to hide the elbows and the shape of our arms," ​​said another student.

"All the girls in the school believe that the Taliban want to be so hard on us that we drop out of school ourselves," the student added. But he says they are determined to study and not allow the Taliban to achieve their goal.