The Shiv Sena has split vertically with chief minister Eknath Shinde leading one faction and his predecessor Uddhav Thackeray heading the other. 

A majority of legislators are with Shinde but Uddhav claims that he still controls the party organisation. 

Some corporators in Thane too have deserted Uddhav and that has emboldened the Shinde factor to now claim the Shiv Sena symbol - bow and arrow. 

The Election Commission of India (ECI) is likely to take up the matter. For Uddhav, it is important to have a control over the organisation and everything associated with it. 

Shinde has been claiming that his is the real Shiv Sena that is following the ideology of Bal Thackeray. He has even called his faction - Shiv Sena Balasaheb. 

The ECI will have to factor in support to both the groups from different layers within the party.

But it is not that simple and easy. The poll body will take a call based on the Election Symbols (Reservation and Allotment) order, 1968.

For the Election Commission too, it is not an easy task. Having 2/3rd legislators in an assembly is not the only criterion. The support of the office bearers and Members of Parliament is also very important. 

But before this, the Supreme Court will hear a petition filed by the faction led by Uddhav on disqualification of rebel legislators. 

For his part, Uddhav has also stepped up interactions with his party colleagues. He has demanded immediate mid-term polls in the state. 

He dared the rebels to use the Shiv Sena's poll symbol. "I challenge them to hold assembly elections today. If we have done wrong, people will send us home. And if this is what you had to do, then you should have done it two and half years ago, and it would have been done respectfully. There would be no need for all this to happen," Thackeray said.

"No one can take the bow and arrow symbol from the Shiv Sena. However, people don't look at only the symbol, they look at the person who has taken the symbol. Future of Shiv Sena and country will be decided on Monday."