Summers bring extreme temperatures, leaving everyone exhausted, sweaty, and confused.
Staying hydrated is the most important aspect of remaining healthy and hydrated in this sweltering heat.
As a result of increased perspiration, your body loses water at a faster rate. While water is the most vital drink for quenching thirst, there are other summer beverages that will not only relieve your thirst but will help keep your body cool. Let us renew and nourish our bodies as we embrace summer with some of the best summer beverages to beat the heat. I have compiled a list of must-try summer drinks which will keep you hydrated.

Buttermilk
Buttermilk, commonly known as chaas, is a delightful curd-based beverage popular in India. Chaas is a great digestive, and adding spices like jeera just enhances the benefits. On this hot, sunny day, cool off with this masala chaas dish.

Jaljeera
The ingredients for jaljeera are jeera and water. Before being blended with water, cumin seeds, also known as jeera, are roasted and ground into a coarse powder. This is an excellent cure for people suffering from digestive problems, especially in the summer. Drink a glass of chilled jaljeera and bask in the sun like you've never seen it before. This is an iced jaljeera recipe you'll want to prepare frequently.

Watermelon Juice 
Watermelon is one of the most delicious summer fruits, and its juice is much more delicious. It's quite refreshing, and its hydrating properties help to keep your body hydrated and energised.

Nimbu Paani or Lemonade 
Try our homemade nimbu paani, or lemonade, which is the most popular summer beverage. This easy and delicious cocktail is made with mint leaves, lemons, sugar, salt, and water. To make it more interesting, spices like cumin, coriander powder, black pepper, and others can be used. This nimbu paani dish is a must-try.

Lassi
Last but not least, I'd like to share my own favourite lassi. This silky, creamy yogurt-based beverage is a popular summertime refresher. The best aspect is that you can mix and match flavours like mint, avocado, mangolassi, and others.