One of the most iconic Premier League games of the nineties saw Arsenal taking on Manchester United at Old Trafford in March 1998. With both clubs chasing the championship – United, a third in succession – this encounter promised to be a title decider.
In the opening rounds, the two sides traded punches; early on, Arsenal’s rapid winger Marc Overmars ran onto Dennis Bergkamp’s perfectly weighted chip, sashaying past a lunging Peter Schmeichel and firing extremely close from an impossibly tight angle.
Not long after, Emmanuel Petit galloped forwards before playing a piercing through ball. Overmars, sprinting outside United’s 19-year-old right back John Curtis, attempted to seize the pass and was tripped by the young defender inside the box although no penalty was given. Next, Overmars charged into the penalty area with the ball, bursting into space from between Curtis and Gary Neville but only finding the side netting. Such was the winger’s dominance that Curtis was substituted after half-time.
The Gunners’ unsung hero was goalkeeper Alex Manninger. In the first half, after Lee Dixon carelessly surrendered possession, Manninger spectacularly denied Teddy Sheringham and was again called into action as Andrew Cole latched onto Schmeichel’s punt upfield. The flag stayed down as Cole raced into the box but Manninger made another critical save.
The winner came eleven minutes from time. A long ball was weakly flicked on by Bergkamp and then Nicolas Anelka into the path of Overmars, who controlled with his own head before stabbing it home through Schmeichel’s legs. Incredibly, it was Arsenal’s first Premier League goal at Old Trafford.
It was also the moment the Gunners decisively wrested control of the title race from Manchester United. From then on, Arsenal would win a further eight games consecutively to make it ten in a row, reeling in United to win their first top-flight title for seven years. Given how he monopolised his side’s attacking threat in this game, Overmars’ individual display remains one of the greatest of the Premier League era.
After clinching the league, Arsenal beat Newcastle United 2-0 in the FA Cup final, goals from Overmars and Anelka winning the Gunners’ first double for 27 years.