By Shekhar Iyer

Even before the statements on TV channels provoked violence in Kanpur and protests in the Gulf countries, Prime Minister Narendra Modi and RSS chief Mohan Bhagwat thought it was time to lower temperature on issues like the discovery of Shivling in the Gyanvapi mosque. 

Both the leaders are known to work in tandem when any big issue threatens to create a big problem for the government and threatens peace in the country.

So, on May 20, Modi cautioned his party office-bearers not to fall into any trap of the opposition by their utterances when eight years of his government have been of resolutions and accomplishments. "These eight years have been committed to service, good governance and welfare of the poor and this is the time for the BJP to fix India's goals for the next 25 years and to work continuously for them."

Modi said some political parties keep looking for small incidents of tension to inject poison for their selfish interests. "Attempts will be made to deviate you from the country's development issues but you have to stick to them," he told the BJP leaders and workers.

It was no surprise that, on June 2, RSS chief Mohan Bhagwat called for a "path through mutual agreement" on the controversy over the discovery of Hindu deities after the court ordered videography of the Gyanvapi mosque following a plea by some Hindu women to allow daily worship.

Significantly, Bhagwat ruled out any agitation by the RSS on the Gyanvapi issue like the one that was undertaken for the Ram temple issue three decades ago. Much to the surprise of the hardliners, Bhagwat chose to signal to the Sangh cadres and affiliates that "there is no need to look for Shivling in every mosque. Even the Gyanvapi-Shringar Gauri issue can be resolved amicably between Hindus and Muslims. If any decision comes from the court, it should be accepted by both sides.”

Read the full story here:- https://www.newsdrum.in/columns/tandem-lowering-tempers-modi-and-rss-chief-work-in-tandem-to-lower-tempers-40458.html