India - A cradle of civilization. 5000 years ago, mighty civilizations flourished in the Indus Valley. India is home to two of the world's oldest and most prominent faiths, each of which has produced writings that have been in print for millennia and doctrines that are being taught and welcomed with zeal today. Sanskrit is an ancient Indian language that is said to be the source of practically every modern language we can think of. Yoga came from this country which has thousands of years of history and empires to learn from.

Iraq - It is located in the heart of Mesopotamia, near the Tigris and Euphrates rivers. Here are the origins of some of the world's oldest cities and empires. Summeria. Babylon. Hamurabi was the king of Hamurabi. And the Epic of Gilgemesh, one of the earliest surviving written books, which includes a creation myth and a "Noah's Ark" template that later became canon for other religions and continues to impact today.

Italy - It was the home to the ancient world's largest and most powerful empire. Its influence was responsible for everything significant that happened in the western world while it was in power, and for well over 1500 years after it fell. Rome was responsible for the spread of Christianity and, through Emperor Constantine, for consolidating Christianity's place in western society by making it a governmental partner. For better or worse, its impact still exists today.

Egypt - Egypt, or Misr, was a mysterious and powerful empire capable of achievements that continue to confound modern minds. Egyptian religion and philosophy flourished for millennia, eventually reaching the Ancient Greeks. Hermes was the Greek Pantheon's "Messenger of the Gods." This God was named after Hermes, a figure in Egyptian mythology who sent "messages from the gods" to the Egyptians in order to teach them philosophy, science, and medicine. It's unknown if the Egyptian Hermes was wholly fictional or based on a real person. However, this character's influence continues to this day, as he and his secrets remain a source of intellectual and spiritual fascination.