In another Group F match of UEFA Champion’s League 2022-23 opening matchday, RB Leipzig and Shakhtar Donetsk will be taking in each other at the RB Arena Leipzig on September 07. The game will be a first encounter between the two sides in a competitive match. 
Teal Madrid, RB Leipzig, Shakhtar Donetsk, and Celtic are the 4 clubs that have been drawn in Group F of the UCL campaign this season. The game will take place at RB Arena Leipzig and Donetsk don’t have a good record against German clubs.
They have won just one of their last 10 UEFA  Champions league games against a German opponent. The last win came back in 2018 against Hoffenheim. Leipzig, on the other hand, have made it to the UCL for the 5th year in a row and have managed to reach the knockouts in 2 of the last 3 seasons.
RB Leipzig vs Shakhtar Donetsk Match Details
Match: RB Leipzig vs Shakhtar Donetsk
Date and Time: 07th September, 08:00 pm UK (06/09), 08:00 pm Local (06/09), 12:30 am IST
Venue: RB Arena Leipzig
RB Leipzig vs Shakhtar Donetsk Probable Playing XI
RB Leipzig: Gulacsi; Simakan, Orban, Gvardiol; Henrichs, Laimer, Forsberg, Raum; Szoboszlai
Shakhtar Donetsk: Trubin; Mykhaylichenko, Matvienko, Bondar, Konoplya; Mudryk, Bondarenko, Stepanenko,
RB Leipzig vs Shakhtar Donetsk Probable Winners
Leipzig certainly have the home advantage going their way in the clash and they would also like to make a solid comeback after their last loss in the Bundesliga. Shakhtar hasn’t played competitive football for quite a long time and hence, their rustiness might end up in them losing the game
Chelsea have managed to come back to winning ways in the Premier League and beat West Ham recently. This game can certainly be a closely-fought contest. 
Prediction: RB Leipzig 2-0 Shakhtar Donetsk
RB Leipzig vs Shakhtar Donetsk Live Stream
RB Leipzig vs Shakhtar Donetsk will be live-streamed on SonyLIV. Indian fans can also stream the match live on Jio TV. In Germany, The match will be televised on DAZN. Prime Video subscribers will be able to watch the match online via the website or app. In UkraIine will live stream the games.