Nehru’s Folly and the ‘Loss’ of Tibet continues....

They were: Robert Ford and Reginald Fox, British radio operators employed by the Tibetan government, Hugh Richardson, the Englishman who was India’s official envoy, Heinrich Harrer and Peter Aufschneiter, Austrian mountaineers who had escaped from the British internment camp in Dehradun (India), Nedbailoff, a White Russian émigré employed to help Aufshneiter with the Lhasa hydroelectric project, Geoffrey Bull, an English Christian missionary, and Vasili Zvansov, the White Russia who had worked for Mackiernan.

So, while there was undoubtedly a nascent American attempt to arm the Tibetans, the presence of a mere nine Westerners in all the enormous country of Tibet was hardly a valid excuse for invading it in the name of ‘liberating’ it from ‘foreign imperialist forces’. It was an excuse, nothing more, for what had already been decided by Mao and Deng.

 There is also no doubt that Tibet had been desperately requesting aid, from Britain, India, the USA, while attempting to get their case for independence heard at the UN. The Tibetan government was doing all it could to keep the request for arms as secret as it could, fearing that knowledge of this would hasten the Chinese invasion of Central Tibet. 

Unfortunately for Tibet, its future was sealed by the two countries most intimately involved. 

One, Britain, who having left India to the Indians was no longer bothered about Tibet, but in self-interest was more concerned about the safety of its colony of Hong Kong, which made it not want to annoy the Communist Chinese.

Two, the vanity and selfinterest of the Indian PM, Pandit Nehru, who was somewhat annoyed with the Tibetan government anyway, for its demand for the return of Sikkim, Darjeeling, Kalimpong, and the Tawang Tract. 

However, Nehru’s main interest lay in building up his own image as a world statesman by promoting the cause of Communist China in all possible forums, even without the Chinese asking. 

Therefore, he acquiesced in everything China did regarding Tibet, and followed a policy of appeasement of the PRC. 

To be continued...