By NewsDrum Desk
Aizawl (Mizoram): The Myanmar political crisis has led to "an increase in smuggling activities" in Mizoram with a rise in seizure of contrabands and exotic animal species in the northeastern state, officials said on Sunday.
According to the state government's data accessed by PTI, the volume of heroin recovered by the excise department and the state police increased from 20.36 kilogram in 2020 to 34.52 kg last year.
During the January-May period of the current year, 19.81 kg of heroin has been seized and 374 people have been arrested for allegedly possessing the contraband.
The volume of drugs and other smuggled goods, such as exotic wild animals, dried areca nuts and Burmese cigarettes, recovered by law enforcement agencies has "increased substantially since the military seized power in the neighbouring country in February last year," the excise and narcotics department official said on condition of anonymity.
"There is no doubt that the Myanmar political crisis has led to the significant increase in trafficking of drugs, especially heroin, from Myanmar to India via Mizoram," he said.
Some of the arrested Myanmar nationals were found to get involved in the smuggling activities recently, the official said, adding that efforts from various state agencies are on to apprehend the kingpins of smuggling rackets.
"Many Myanmar people are rendered jobless and have no stable sources of income due to the current political crisis there. Many of them were lured into smuggling activities," the official said.
With the increase in heroin supply, the price of the drug has plummeted as "one 'hawng' of the narcotics substance (hawng is a local measurement equal to around 13-14 grams) is now available at Rs 15,000-18,000, while it was earlier sold at Rs 35,000 in the local market", he said.
Mizoram Inspector General of Police (Headquarters) John Neihlaia also said the increase in the number of seizures and dip in heroin prices are linked to the Myanmar crisis.
Read more: 
https://www.newsdrum.in/national/rise-in-smuggling-activities-in-mizoram-due-to-myanmar-crisis-officials-91034.html
