
Iran is witnessing widespread protests after the death of a 22-year old Kurdish woman, Mahsa Amini, after being detained by Iran's "morality" police. This morality police was made to implement dress-code related laws in the country. 
Mahasa Amini was travelling to Iran's capital Tehran from Saqez where she was detained for not wearing her hijab properly, which is considered a punishable offence in Iran.
She was taken to the detention centre where her brother was present with her during her interrogation. He heard her wailing noises from the room, after which an ambulance was called. When taken to hospital, she slipped into a coma. 
Later, the authorities resisted the blame for her death saying, "while receiving educational training on hijab rules she collapsed and suffered a heart attack".
However her family has alleged that she was beaten up during her interrogation. 
After Amini's death, woman started protesting with their headscarves in their hands and shouting anti-government slogans against harassing women for dress codes and dress laws. 
Many women also took to social media to chop off their hair to protest against the authorities for not taking responsibility for the incident. 
According to The Guardian report, earlier this month the iranian authorities were planning to use facial recognition technology in public transport to identify woman who were not following hijab rules properly. Along with this the government also issued an order against women wearing high heels and stockings. 
In July this year on national hijab and chastity day, Iran witnessed extensive protests where women took to social media to remove their hijabs in public. Moreover, Iranian president Ebraham Raisi had also passed an order in July, to enforce Iran's hijab and chastity law with new restrictions. 
In July this year, Iranian president Ebraham Raisi passed an order, to enforce Iran's hijab and chastity law with new restrictions which witnessed extensive protests where women took to social media to remove their hijabs in public. 
According to the Unrepresented Nations and Peoples Organization, there are 8 to 10 million Kurds present in Iran which comes to 11 to 15% of Iran's population.
Yet, Iran has long been accused of oppressing them.
