Since the start of the pandemic in 2020, we’ve had our eyes glued to screens, staring at a constant stream of numbers. It can be overwhelming, and it’s easy for complicated data to lose meaning. But good data enables us to clearly see the details of America’s gun violence epidemic like nothing else. 

Below, we’ve shared some of the facts and figures that stood out from the noise. They highlight the human cost of gun violence, they give us a better understanding of who owns firearms, and they help make sense of the remarkable increase in shootings our nation continues to endure. 

20,726

The number of gun deaths, excluding suicides, so far in 2021.

The total includes murders, accidents, and homicides that were ruled justifiable. It’s a slight increase over the total in 2020 and a continuation of the trend of rising gun deaths that accelerated during the pandemic. The annual total is the highest recorded by the Gun Violence Archive since the nonprofit’s founding in 2014. ( Gun Violence Archive)

693

The number of mass shooting incidents in the United States in 2021.

When defined as four or more people shot, 2021’s total is 13.4 percent higher than 2020. The shootings have claimed 702 lives and injured 2,844 people. Though mass public shootings like the Boulder, Colorado, supermarket shooting; the metro Atlanta spa shootings; and the San Jose transit shooting garnered intense media attention, most mass shootings disproportionately affect Black and brown communities and receive relatively little coverage.

Two-thirds

The share of major cities that have seen more homicides this year than in 2020.

When gun violence began to surge during the pandemic, cities saw their homicide rates soar, and in many of the country’s most populous cities. Though there are signs the rate of increase has slowed, at least nine of the country’s major cities have broken previous homicide records this year, according to a CNN analysis of 40 cities. ( CNN)

18.8 million

The estimated number of guns sold in 2021.

The number includes 11.3 million handguns and 7.5 million long guns. Based on data from the National Instant Criminal Background Check System. [The Trace]

Read more
https://www.thetrace.org/2021/12/gun-violence-data-s