The 2022 World Cup to be held in Qatar from November 21 to December 18 is set to be a grand show, but the tournament will surely have some absentees. Former Germany captain Philipp Lahm, in an interview said he would not attend the World Cup. He said: “I prefer to stay home. Human rights should play a more important role in the awarding of competitions.” The 2014 World Cup skipper questioned the criteria for FIFA’s decisions to award the World Cup to Qatar: “This should not happen again in the future. Human rights, the size of the country … all this seems not to have been taken into account.” He also addresses his counterparts: “As players, you can no longer pretend you don’t know.”
Meanwhile, Human Rights Watch on Friday again urged FIFA and the host nation to improve compensation for migrant workers and their families. The rights group called for a “comprehensive remedy programme for workers who suffered serious harms, including deaths, injuries, and wage theft” while working on World Cup-related projects like stadiums, transport and hotels. 
Qatar has spent tens of billions of dollars on infrastructure since being picked by FIFA as host in 2010, and faced intense scrutiny of its labour laws and treatment of hundreds of thousands of workers, many from south Asia, who were needed to come to the tiny emirate and build the projects. “Qatar has compensated some migrant workers who have faced serious abuses in recent years, but for many, these programmes were created too late and are still a major work in progress,” said Michael Page, HRW’s deputy director for the Middle East. In Qatar, a Workers’ Support Fund has since 2020 paid out $164 million in compensation to 36,373 workers from 17 different countries, HRW said citing data from Qatar’s Ministry of Labour. The organization did not specify a figure for how much compensation is still needed, though Amnesty International has suggested FIFA should pay $440 million in reparations to workers — matching the sum soccer’s world body will pay in prize money to the 32 national federations whose teams are playing in Qatar.