Becoming one of the biggest surprising hits of 2019, Shazam flew into theatres and became an unexpected hit, critically acclaimed and for the most part just a lot of plain fun. Come three years later, the trailer for the sequel to the 2019 film, Shazam!Fury of the Gods is here and it looks equally as fun as its predecessor. In the trailer for Shazam! Fury of the Gods, we see cameos ofThe Flash (Ezra Miller), Aquaman (Jason Momoa), and Batman (Ben Affleck) while Shazam laments that he is not as cool as either of them as well as his struggles of fitting in a superhero family where he feels like a failure.

Directed by David F. Sandberg from a screenplay written by returning scribe Henry Gayden and produced by Peter Safran, Shazam! Fury of the Gods will feature the return of Asher Angel and Zachary Levi as they reprise their respective roles as Billy Batson and Shazam. Joining them are most of the first film’s main cast, including Jack Dylan Grazer and Adam Brody as Freddy; Faithe Herman and Meagan Good as Darla; Ian Chen and Ross Bulter as Eugene; Grace Fulton as Mary; Jovan Arman and D.J. Cotrona as Pedro; Marta Milans, and Cooper Andrews. Helen Mirren plays Hespera while Lucy Liu plays Kalypso. The movie will also star West Side Story star Rachel Zeigler in an undisclosed role.

After defeating the archvillain Sivana, this time the superhero family will go up against the daughters of Atlas. Given that the DCEU is in shambles, the trailer uses footage from Zack Snyder’s Justice League and Aquaman which sort of establishes and strengthens the connection between the DCEU films and forms a thread.

Shazam! Fury of the Gods from its trailer seems like a lot of good fun with a concrete storyline which only aims to entertain and make it a good time. Hopefully DCEU won’t go the MCU way and make things overly dumb and stupid in the process of making them light hearted and fun, maybe they will know how to strike a balance between fun and serious, or this can majorly suck, which will be a shame.