Trans-competencies are skills essential to delivering quality healthcare to transgender and nonbinary patients. Through a participatory and inclusive effort, TransCare MedEd has developed the following India-centered trans-affirmative competencies, that will be explored during the TransCare Med Ed National Conference:

I. Challenges in accessing healthcare | An Indian Medical Graduate/Indian Health Practitioner must be able to:

1.Communicate with a TGNB person in a culturally appropriate manner.

2. Demonstrate understanding of the unique social experiences faced by TGNB persons and respect their lived experience and provide contextualized care accordingly.

3. Describe the facilitators and barriers to treatment-seeking behavior unique to TGNB persons.

4. Develop innovative strategies to make the healthcare of TGNB persons affordable and accessible.

5. Provide healthcare services in a way that is affordable, accessible, and culturally acceptable to TGNB persons.

6. Demonstrate awareness of all current central and state-level government laws, policies and schemes in India with respect to TGNB persons and should be able to guide them and counsel them in availing appropriate provisions

7. Demonstrate awareness of available gender affirmative services and assess the gender affirmation needs of a TGNB person while understanding its relationship to their mental health and quality of life

8. Demonstrate awareness of the fluidity and diversity within and the evolving concepts of SOGIESC framework (Sexual Orientation, Gender Identity, Gender Expression, Sex Characteristic)

9. Demonstrate empathy in their interaction with TGNB persons

10. Identify the unique health care needs of a trans and non-binary persons including but not limited to their mental health, gender affirmation, and sexual and reproductive health needs

11. Demonstrate a commitment to following a patient-centered approach to deliver effective and affirmative healthcare to TGNB persons

12. Treat TGNB persons ethically by demonstrating sensitivity and respect for inherent dignity while upholding their autonomy and privacy

13. Demonstrate awareness of their own power and privileges and how it influences interactions and decision-making with TGNB persons

14. Demonstrate shared decision-making with TGNB persons in their choice of care

15. Elicit the preferences, needs and support systems of TGNB persons in an empathetic manner during history taking