In 2010 Dr. Qaderi attended a conference in China focusing on alleviating poverty and promoting better conditions for women in Afghanistan where she spoke extensively about the deprivation and oppression of Afghan women. In 2011, Dr. Qaderi participated in the second conference in Bonn, Germany, The International Conference on Afghanistan, speaking before the general assembly regarding the plight of Afghan women and their fight for equal rights. In 2012, Dr. Qaderi attended the Tokyo Conference, organized by 100 countries and their civic activists. During this conference, as part of the Afghan delegation, she requested that other countries assist the Afghan Government by dedicating their aid to benefit Afghan women. In 2012, she met with representatives of the Islamic world in Turkey to request implementation of changes in education and the workplace in order to improve the condition of women in the Muslim world. In 2012, she also attended talks in Pakistan and in Tajikistan promoting women's participation in government and in decision making roles within Muslim society. In 2014, Dr. Qaderi was a panelist for a symposium in Switzerland regarding the working conditions of women in Afghanistan. In December 2014, Dr. Qaderi participated in the London Conference on Afghanistan. In 2015, Dr. Qaderi was invited to attend the International Writing Program at the University of Iowa City. She took part in the International Writing Program at the University of Iowa.

During the 2021 fall of Kabul, she and her son were among the last to gain entrance through a secret gate on the north side of the airport to flee the country.

In 2011 she began teaching as a professor at Kabul University. Because of the great demand for her literary skills and professional expertise in Persian Literature, she also began teaching at Mash’al, Gharjistan, and Kateb universities. During the same period, she organized and was active in civic movements focused on achieving equal rights for Afghan women.