Far from the hustle and bustle of the city, there is a hill station named Darjeeling, popularly known as the Queen Of Hills. The Queen of hills is famous for its lush green fields, the sweet smell of the tea gardens, the scenic landscape, and the world-famous toy train ride. 

Amidst all the beauties surrounding Darjeeling, there is a small town named Kalimpong, located in the heart of Darjeeling. Back in the day, Kalimpong was called Dalingkot, which saw the rise and fall of two mighty kingdoms, Sikkim and Bhutan. Kalimpong was also the gateway to trade between Britain and India. It was also one of the exotic destinations, under the British government. There are also stories about the Queen wanting Darjeeling to be a part of the United Kingdom, post-independence.

Located in the lap of the Himalayas, Kalimpong is a picturesque town, similar to that in the movies. The slow-paced life, the local delicacies, and the warmth of its people, will make you fall in love, with the town. It is a perfect destination for people wanting to escape the mental and physical strains of life, be at tranquility with nature, and admire its sheer beauty. 

From the ancient British churches to the beautiful monasteries, mosques, and temples, the thing that sets Kalimpong apart is the diversity and unity among the people living there. The town has been home to refugees and welcomes everyone with an open arm, irrespective of their creed, caste, color, or sex. In no other place will you witness the whole town celebrating different festivals like Holi, Dusshera, Eid, Christmas, Losar together. 

The town is also home to some of the best educational institutions like St. Augustine's School, St. Joseph's Convent, Dr. Graham's Homes, S.U.M.I, etc. Some of the famous activities in Kalimpong include dancing to the tunes of the Gaina's (street musicians), rafting, rock climbing, paragliding, shopping, trying the local delicacies, and my favorite trekking. 

From chasing sunsets to waking up to the first rays of sunlight, being greeted by the soothing sound of the river, to climbing the endless roaring mountains, that's what Kalimpong has in store for its trekkers.