We always wonder despite hundreds of mass shootings in America every year, Congress has always failed to pass major gun-control legislation. The obstacles are many including some citizens as well as lawmakers but anti-gun activists say they will not give up until change is made.

In America, gun violence has been so frequent that people almost made peace with it-nothing is being done from the side of lawmakers and so people started expecting less. Yet the numbers might horrify you. This year, 213 mass shootings, interpreted as incidents in which at least four people were shot or killed, have already happened in America, according to the Gun Violence Archive. In 2021, 692 mass shootings were recorded, in comparison to 610 throughout 2020.

Gun control advocates have outlined a substantial and specific plan to lower the number of deaths caused by firearms in the US. Those policies include mandating background checks for all gun purchases, comprising those overseen by unlicensed sellers online or at gun shows, and implementing a waiting period after someone buys a firearm.

Advocates have also called for broadening the restrictions on people who can legally obtain guns. They say, abusive dating partners, those convicted of hate crimes and people with mental illness who pose a safety risk, among others, should be banned from buying firearms. Some have proposed prohibiting gun purchases by people under 21, which may have prevented the 18-year-old shooter in Uvalde from acquiring his weapons.

Some states have already enacted stricter gun laws I repeat some states, so the more permanent solution will be a federal law. 

Many people claim Americans are tough and are against gun control. Well, things have changed. There is broad support in the US for certain policies championed by gun-control advocates. According to a Morning Consult/Politico survey taken last year, 84% of American voters support universal background checks for gun purchases. People are done with gun violence!