The healthcare sector alone currently generates almost 30% of the world's data. In 2020, the total amount of healthcare data that was collected was about 2100 exabytes and it will grow faster at a 36% growth rate by 2025. This is 10% faster than the financial services and 11% faster than the entertainment industry. 

Healthcare is one of the most important, largest, and fastest-growing sectors. According to Global Market insights the healthcare-tech industry is projected to grow at 17% annually between 2021 and 2027. 

COVID-19 pandemic forced us to use technology in healthcare and has proved that technology is time-saving and is more efficient in healthcare delivery and remote care. Artificial Intelligence (AI)powered chatbots changed the mindset of the anti-vaccine community in Japan and young Americans by providing credible individualized pro-vaccine information to the people and increased the vaccine acceptance rate from 59% to 80%. During the peak COVID time, 80% of the patients were interacting with doctors through telehealth platforms, and in the pre-COVID era, telehealth was in rare usage at less than 1% of total doctor-patient interaction. It is certain that after COVID, telehealth will not go back to 1%. The Govt of India came with telehealth guidelines during this time only. 

The leading technologies currently transforming the healthcare sectors are Artificial Intelligence (AI) and Machine Learning (ML), Internet of Things (IoT), Big-data analytics, blockchain, and 3D printing. Artificial intelligence (AI), often called "New Electricity," has resulted in a sweeping impact on improving and supporting the healthcare delivery systems, predictive healthcare analytics, preventive care, disease diagnosis, individualized drug therapy & dosing, positive behavioral change, and drug discovery. AI solutions can be used for healthcare predictive analytics by anticipating bad events before they occur, alerting healthcare providers to make timely decisions that can prevent the risk.

Currently, AI-based solutions are being developed to identify patients who are at the risk of developing severe disease, identify people who have higher chances of developing heart diseases, identify patients who would develop severe COVID disease and hence, may require ICU care, identify patients who are at a higher risk of death (say as in cancer), and so on. 

Read more https://www.google.com/amp/s/health.economictimes.indiatimes.com/amp/news/health-it/technological-research-in-the-healthcare-sector-is-the-need-of-the-hour/89365990