Iceland, a northern European country, and an island in the North Atlantic, decided to end whale hunting from 2024, despite controversy at home.

Iceland is one of those rare countries, along with Japan and Norway, where commercial whaling is still allowed.  

Even though the country had a quota of commercial hunting over 400 whales, including huge fin whales and tiny minke whales between 2019-23, in the past three years, only one Minke whale was hunted in the period. Two main licence holders stopped whale hunting as the demand for Icelandic whale meat has dropped in the past few years. Japan, the main market, don't buy the meat after they renewed commercial whaling in 2019, following a 30-year ban. The US retail chain Whole Foods, another big buyer, also stopped selling whale meat from Iceland.

Challenges of the pandemic also affected the whale industry. Social distancing in meat processing plants hampered production. Extension of ban on fishing zones by the coasts of the island also makes whale hunting commercially non-viable.

The dwindling demand of whale meat and related issues helped the Ministry of Fishery and Agriculture build up a case for complete ban on commercial whale hunting beyond 2024, when the country’s current quota expires. The minister Svandís Svavarsdóttir wrote in the newspaper Morgunbladid that there was no longer any economic benefit of commercial whaling in the country.

The minister’s announcement was welcomed by anti-whaling campaigners. They claim that whalers in the country have killed hundreds of whales over the years, in spite of dwindling demand for whale meat.

The end of whaling is also expected to boost a flourishing new whale-related industry—whale watching by tourists, both domestic and foreign.

READ MORE:

 https://www.bbc.com/news/world-europe-60265085

https://edition.cnn.com/2022/02/05/europe/iceland-whaling-to-end-2024-intl/index.html

https://www.theguardian.com/environment/2022/feb/04/iceland-to-end-whaling-in-2024-demand-dwindles