Let's explore foods to eat that are beneficial for your vagina because we want you—and your downstairs—happy and healthy. (Pro tip: these don’t go in your vagina.)
1 Water -  This should be no surprise, cause what can’t water do? Drinking enough water can help your body stay hydrated and can even help with vaginal lubrication.
2 Avocados, apples, and flaxseeds -  They are all super-healthy for many reasons, but for those who don’t like soy, remember that eating these three may also help you stay naturally lubricated down there.
3 Cranberry juice - Loaded with acid compounds that fight off bad bacteria, drinking cranberry juice may help you prevent and relieve symptoms of urinary tract infections. But go for a natural, no-sugar-added brand to get the benefits and if your symptoms don’t get better, it’s time to see a health care provider.
4 Probiotics - They have the same good bacteria your vag needs to maintain its healthy pH levels. Look for probiotics like yogurt, kefir, kimchi, kombucha, sauerkraut, miso, and pickles with live and active cultures/probiotics.
5 Garlic - It’s known to be antimicrobial, and they say eating it raw can help fight yeast infections.
6 Eggs - They have great fatty acids, which can help with a variety of things including blood flow and circulation.
7 Sweet potatoes - Their vitamin A contributes to healthy vaginal and uterine walls and helps us produce the hormones we need to stay vibrant and energized.
8 Soy - The phytoestrogens in soy help keep your vagina lubricated, but don’t go for the overly processed stuff like soy burgers or nuggets. Stick with edamame, tofu, tempeh, and miso.
9 Almonds and pumpkin seeds -  They’re high in zinc, which can normalize your menstrual cycle and regulate hormones. Zinc can also boost your immune system and your mood.
10 Hot chilies - They contain capsaicin, which improves blood circulation and stimulates nerve endings. That’s good for arousal.
Read more - https://www.bedsider.org/features/591-foods-that-make-your-vagina-happy-and-healthy-yes-really
