As a 10-year-old, Salim once noticed a flying bird and shot it down. Tender at heart, he instantly ran and picked it up. It appeared like a house sparrow, but had a strange yellowish shade on the throat. Curious, he showed the sparrow to his uncle Amiruddin and questioned him about the bird’s kind. Unable to answer, his uncle took him to W.S. Millard, the Honorary Secretary of the Bombay Natural History Society. Amazed at the unusual interest of the young boy, Millard took him to see many stuffed birds. When Salim finally saw a bird similar to the child’s bird, he got very excited. After that, the young Salim started visiting the place frequently.Salim Moizuddin Abdul Ali was born on 12 November 1896 the youngest of nine children. His father, Moizuddin died when he was a year old and his mother, Zeenat-un-nissa, passed away when he was three. Now orphaned, Salim Ali was raised by an aunt, Hamida Begum and uncle, Amiruddin Tyabji,  instantly ran and picked it up. It appeared like a house sparrow, but had a strange yellowish shade on the t

As a 10-year-old, Salim once noticed a flying bird and shot it down. Tender at heart, he instantly ran and picked it up. It appeared like a house sparrow, but had a strange yellowish shade on the throat. Curious, he showed the sparrow to his uncle and questioned him about the bird’s kind. Unable to answer, his uncle took him to W.S. Millard, of the Bombay Natural History Society. Amazed at the unusual interest of the young boy, Millard took him to see many stuffed birds. When Salim finally saw a bird similar to the child’s bird, he got very excited. After that, the young Salim started visiting the place frequently.Salim Ali, as a married man, required money to make a living, so he joined the museum as a clerk. The position allowed him to carry on with his bird research. His wife’s house at Kihim, a small village near Mumbai, was a tranquil place surrounded by trees, where Salim would spend most of his time researching about the activities of the weaver bird.