In the first two months after coming to power in Punjab, the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) government in the state spent Rs 37.36 crore on advertisements in news channels, radio and newspapers, according to a Right to Information (RTI) reply received by a Punjab-based social activist.

Some beneficiaries of this cater primarily to Gujarati audiences, but they also include Republic TV and Sudarshan News. AAP chief Arvind Kejriwal has prohibited his party colleagues from giving these two channels news bytes and appearing in their panel discussions, according to a source in the party.

The AAP, which rode to power in Punjab with a thumping majority on 10 March, is now gearing up to contest the assembly polls in Gujarat, slated for later this year.

According to the RTI response received by activist Manik Goyal, who is based in Mansa district, the list of publications that received ads from the AAP government in Punjab features many Gujarat-based regional newspapers including Divya Bhaskar, Kutchmitra, Sandesh and Phulchhab.

Similarly, on the list of TV news channels that received advertisements from the AAP government in Punjab during the same period are TV9 Gujarati, Zee 24 Kalak, Sandesh News, ABP Asmita, News18 Gujarati, VTV-Gujarati and Janta TV.

Of the Rs 37.36 crore the AAP government in Punjab spent on advertisements between 11 March and 10 May, Rs 20.15 crore went to TV and radio channels, while the remaining Rs 17.21 crore went to newspapers.

Sonali Giri, director of the Punjab government’s information and public relations department, told ThePrint that placing advertisements in channels and publications that cater to audiences outside the state is a “routine affair”, adding that past governments had also done it.

“Not just that, even other state governments publish their advertisements in Punjabi channels and newspapers. Over the last few months, Punjab newspapers have had advertisements of Telangana, Uttar Pradesh and Haryana governments, among others."

Citing the same RTI documents, Punjab Congress chief Amarinder Singh Raja Warring targeted Chief Minister Bhagwant Mann by calling the advertisements “shameful wastage of public money”.

Dismissing the criticism, the AAP’s chief spokesperson in Punjab, Malvinder Singh Kang said: “The AAP follows a model of development and welfare-based governance... The best way to spread our message is through the media.”