The 22-year-old Portugal international endured a tough time at Molineux, but is now on his way to Parc des Princes after impressing for Porto

Article continues below

A new era at Paris Saint-Germain is beginning, with midfielder Vitinha forming part of that process following his big-money move from Porto.

The 22-year-old Portugal international is being added to star-studded ranks at Parc des Princes after enjoying a stunning reversal in fortunes at club level.

A loan spell at Premier League outfit Wolves in 2020-21 did not work out, but the hot prospect is now linking up with the Ligue 1 champions after rediscovering his spark back in his homeland.

How much have PSG paid for Vitinha?

The holding midfielder has not come cheap for PSG, costing a €40 million (£34m/$42m) fee.

The French champions will consider that deal to be an investment for their present and future, with still plenty of potential to be unlocked in Vitinha’s game.

Article continues below

He has signed a five-year contract with the club, tying him down until 2027.

Who is Vitinha and why have PSG signed him?

Vitinha is a product of Porto’s academy and signed up with the Portuguese giants as an 11-year-old.

He made his senior debut in a cup clash with Varzim on January 14, 2020 before going on to make his league bow in a meeting with Gil Vicente two weeks later.

With game time in short supply and with Porto needing to comply with Financial Fair Play regulations, a season-long loan at Wolves was sanctioned in September 2020.

Vitinha did not start a Premier League fixture for the Molineux-based outfit until facing Manchester United in December and registered only one goal – in an FA Cup clash with Chorley – in 22 appearances in all competitions.

Wolves decided not to trigger their €20m (£17m/$21m) purchase option, but may now be regretting that decision.

Upon returning to Porto, Vitinha quickly earned a spot at the heart of Sergio Conceicao’s 4-4-2 system, with his ability to carry the ball and pick a pass allowing him to register four goals and three assists in 47 games.