(Favorite on-screen Bffs)
Pop-culture time and again has given many legendary friendships to look up to. May it be the classic like Frodo and Sam; Jai and Veeru; Forest Gump and Bubba Blue or our all-time favourite Chandler and Joey; Leonard and Sheldon; Harry and Hermione. The takeaway remains that despite all the odds, these characters found best friends in each other and sticked with one another till the end.
It is rare to see friendships on screen that happen outside of schools and colleges irrespective of age, gender, and status. One such rarer gem is seen in the Indian web show “Panchayat”. It is a myth in Indian society that men don’t get to have emotional bonding with each other. The show just squashed all this prejudice.
The protagonist Abhishek, city boy settling with this limited paid job as Panchayat secretary in village Phulera initially felt stuck. Drooling over failing to accomplish a well-paying job like his friends from college and having fomo of city life. But it was only a matter of time before he slowly started connecting with the people of the village. Abhishek, MukhiyaJi, Vikas and Prahladcha formed a solid group of friends. From saying no to gunda gardi in the first season to sticking together against the rowdy MLA in second season, the group has come a long way. Gifting a lauki to the friend out of affection is something we don't see very often. The best scenes were the one when four them got together to party. Some of the hilarious and carefree moments get reflected here.
Siddharth, friend of Abhishek who comes to surprise him shows us that drifting apart doesn’t bring a block in true friendship.
Even though we might not call each other or hang out very often but somewhere deep down we know that one person always being there for us, to listen us, laugh at our bad jokes, to tell a cliché line when we narrate our problem and give us best crazy advise in the whole world. And whenever we meet next, it would feel as if we never got apart and the never ending gossips would continue. 