The Gunners have stated that "any type of discriminatory abuse is not welcome at our club," and that they will "take the harshest action available" if it occurs. Two Arsenal fans were ejected from Emirates Stadium during their match against Brighton on April 9 and are now being investigated for homophobic insults.

Last weekend, the Gunners were defeated 2-1 at home by Brighton, thereby ending their chances of finishing in the top four. To make matters worse, a couple of fans had to be ejected from the stadium due to abusive behavior, and the club has now announced that security will be beefed up to avoid any repeat incidents.

“We have been made aware of incidents of homophobic abuse at our home fixture against Brighton & Hove Albion on Saturday,” a statement on Arsenal's official website reads.

“Arsenal should be a safe and welcoming environment for everyone, and we want to be clear that any kind of discriminatory abuse is not welcome at our club.

“We can confirm that two supporters were ejected from the stadium, and we stepped up stewarding operations in areas where abuse was reported.

“The incidents that were reported are now being investigated by the club, and we will take the strongest action possible against perpetrators who can be identified.

Arsenal also like to remind supporters that homophobic abuse is a hate crime and punishable by the law. Please think before you chant. Arsenal would like to thank those who came forward to report the incidents on Saturday. We can only address this kind of abuse with the help of Arsenal fans as allies.

The official Arsenal supporters’ group, 'Gay Gooners,' has expressed gratitude for the club's statement, while also urged fans to continue reporting any abuse they may observe during games. "Thanks to arsenal for releasing this statement, as well as OfficialBHAFC and all their fans who reported homophobic abuse," the LGBT+ organisation wrote on Twitter. Please notify us if you ever observe homophobic abuse at a game."