In one of history's most famous cases of body-snatching, two men stole the corpse of the revered film actor Sir Charles Chaplin from a cemetery in the Swiss village of Corsier-sur-Vevey, located in the hills above Lake Geneva, near Lausanne, Switzerland, on March 1, 1978.

Roman Wardas, a 24-year-old car mechanic, said he was out of work, and going through hard times when he read a newspaper report about a similar case in Italy. “As a result I decided to hide Charlie Chaplin’s body and solve my problems,” Wardas told Vevey District Court at the start of his trial.

Together with 38-year-old Gantscho Ganev, a Bulgarian, Wardas is accused of desecrating Chaplin’s tomb in a village graveyard and attempting to extort $600,000 from the Chaplin family.

“I did not feel particularly squeamish about interfering with a coffin,” he said. “I was going to hide it deeper in the same hole originally, but it was raining and the earth got too heavy.”

Wardas said in answer to a question by Court President Roland Chatelain: “I left my country is order to be free, but found it difficult to get steady work in Switzerland. He said the coffin was lifted out into Ganev’s car, then reburied in a field 20 kilometres (about 12 miles) farther along Lake Geneva.

Then, using the pseudonym “Mr Rochat,” he made several calls to the Chaplin mansion demanding a ransom and eventually threatening violence to Lady Oona and Chapin’s younger children if he did not get the money, Wardas said.

Wardas was sentenced to four-and-a-half years of hard labour and Ganev was given an 18-month suspended sentence, as he was believed to have limited responsibility for the crime.

In 2014, French filmmaker Xavier Beauvois dramatised this infamous true crime episode in 'The Price of Fame', about two men who plot to steal Chaplin’s corpse for ransom.The film itself is a pale imitation of the real Chaplin, but its understanding and social consciousness is heartwarming given the more gruesome details of the events in question and how they interact with Chaplin’s legacy.