Striking Distance Studios and Krafton have released a gloriously violent trailer for the upcoming survival horror game Callisto Protocol, the spiritual successor for Dead Space revealing yet more details about the game.
 The new trailer debuted recently and should give fans of Dead Space, survival horror, and even shooters and action games plenty to be excited about if blood, gore, brutality, scares, dismemberments, suspense, tension and darkness are something they look forward to. The trailer once again focuses on gruesome combat and animations highlighting the game’s focus on melee combat.
The new trailer gives a terrifying look at the abominations lurking beneath Black Iron Prison, a futuristic prison society operated by United Jupiter Company on Jupiter's moon Callisto. The trailer also features Hollywood actress Karen Fukuhara who is best known to have portrayed Katana in Suicide Squad and Kimiko Miyashiro in The Boys.
 In Callisto Protocol she will be starring as Danny Nakamura alongside actor Josh Duhamel who voices the protagonist of the game Jacob Lee, an inmate of Black Iron Prison who seeks to escape the prison after a terrifying alien invasion.
The project is even being helmed by Dead Space co-creator Glen Schofield, so fans of sci-fi horror have plenty to be excited about, and more so given that the Dead Space remake is arriving just a month after the game’s release in January 2023.
 Schofield recently teased that The Callisto Protocol is "so advanced compared to Dead Space" and allows for "some pretty horrific moments," which means you can expect an even more gruesome experience than the already quite gory Dead Space games.
"It's a lot of rendering, and you break up the characters into jumps, cut them up with bones sticking out and all that," he described in detail. 
"Then the rendering guys, they do their special thing to it which is make everything look wet. And so every character had to be done that way - and however you go at it, chunks break off, or parts of the face, parts of the head." 
The Callisto Protocol releases on December 2 and will be available on PC, PS4, PS5, Xbox One, and Xbox Series X/S. 