In Retirement continues...
When in 1947 partition of the Punjab loomed ahead and the 
division of assets between India and Pakistan began, the question 
of dividing the assets of the University of the Punjab between the 
East Punjab University and Punjab University came up for decision 
in the Senate. 
I led the opinion that favoured the distribution of the 
assets, my colleague on the bench, Justice Din Muhammad, led the 
opposition. In a tense atmosphere, but in speeches dignified though 
passionate in tone, the discussion was carried on and the Senate 
decided in favour of partition. The Central Government now stepped 
in and refused to carry through the proposal on the ground that in 
Bengal, assets of the Calcutta University were not distributed. 
The new East Punjab University thus had to start from scratch Sardar Bahadur Teja Singh was the first Vice-Chancellor of the 
East Punjab University and was succeeded by Principal G. C. 
Chattarji. Dewan Anand Kumar followed him to be succeeded by 
Dr. A. C. Joshi. They carried the affairs of the University with 
great care and wisdom. Their united efforts are bearing fruit. 
The Punjab University bids fair to become a great University with 
an ideally planned campus and, let us hope, an ideal seat of learning. 
In 1956 anxious that India which had become united as one 
country may not again be divided, I wrote a letter to Prime Minister 
Nehru suggesting an amendment to the Constitution in order to 
convert it into a unitary Constitution. 
“My dear Panditji, allow me to offer my felicitations and hearty welcome 
to you on your return home after a grand tour of Russia and other Western 
countries, by which you have raised the status of Bharat to the level of the 
big two in the world. There are crores of your countrymen who admire and 
sing your praises by open demonstrations but there are some who worship 
your achievements in a quiet way and enshrine you in their hearts. I, once 
your humble servant in another sphere of state activity, belong to the latter 
class. 
To be continued.....