It has been an up and down journey for the Chennaiyin FC as after blistering the first two sessions there is a detrimental effect on their performance. There is almost a total change in their foreign contingents except Rafael Crivellaro and Thomas Brdaric is the new coach for the upcoming season. Chennaiyin FC would look to bounce back this season as their form was also with them in the recently concluded Durand cup.
After a finish in the lower half last season with only 5 wins in their 20 games Chennaiyin FC got to note all their flaws as they conceded 35 goals all total. Juan Fernando's ATK Mohun Bagan FC is the only team in the last two seasons to qualify for the playoffs but in both the occasions they failed to bring the title home. Though they haven't performed there best in the recently concluded Durand Cup but hopes are high that the most consistent team will start off their season win a good way with their first match being against two times champions Chennaiyin FC
Match Details 
ATK Mohun Bagan vs Chennaiyin FC
Date and Time - 10th October, 7:30 PM IST
Venue - Vivekananda Yuba Bharati Krirangan, Kolkata. 
ATK Mohun Bagan vs Chennaiyin FC Predicted line-ups
ATK Mohun Bagan: Vishal Kaith,Brendan Hamill,Pritam Kotal,Subhasish Bose,Asish Rai,Ashique Kuruiyan, Carl McHugh,Joni Kauko,Manvir Singh, Dimitrios Petratos,Liston Colaco
Chennaiyin FC: Debjit Majumder, Edwin Sydney Vanspaul, Fallou Diagne, Sajid Dhot, Narayan Das, Anirudh Thapa, Julius Duker, Vincy Baretto, Rafael Crivellaro, Ninthoinganba Meetei, and Petar Sliskovic.
Match Prediction - ATK Mohun Bagan vs Chennaiyin FC:
ATK had been in great momentum as they won 5 out of their last 6 matches and Chennaiyin FC had managed to win only 2 of their last 5. So odds are in the favour of ATK Mohun Bagan winning their home match and starting off the season. 
ATK Mohun Bagan vs Chennaiyin FC: Live telecast details
The opening match of ISL this season between ATK Mohun Bagan vs Chennaiyin FC will be telecasted on Star Sports and Star Sports HD TV channels in India from 7:30 PM onwards.