 
How to become more smarter footballer..? 
WATCHING THE PROFESSIONALS  
Watch the professional players as often as possible. watch professional matches happening nearby and analyse what they are trying to do and specially pay attention to the decisions these players make.
Your goal should be watching one match regularly and learning a way lot thinks from these professional players playing in the matches.
POSITION SPECIFIC 
Despite of the General information study how to play Smart in your position and know what is your role in your position.
Cause decision making will vary position to position so try to study your position which what will truly help you play your position best on the pitch and will make you become a better footballer. 
AVOID WATCHING HIGHLIGHTS 

Try minimise watching highlights. I recommend you to stop watching football highlights of the matches as these highlight show players pulling of fancy skills and only the success side of the match.
This highlight will show that the player which is featured in the video will always win the ball or will always dribble pass the opponent but thats not what you need to be looking cause that is not real.
Instead do an complete match analysis and developed your Football IQ
PRACTICE IT
Work on what you have learnt so put in the match realistic practice sessions with movements on an off the ball.
You have to practice and implement that in your game which you have studied from watching professional players playing football so that you automatically do everything correct which is really needed in the match to succeed.
GAME TIME - PLAY IN MATCHES
This is the most crucial tip you need to know what you are doing wrong and what you have to do to fix it.
Take the feedbacks from the coaches and ask what you could have done to be better on the field.
Playing Matches and facing different situations will make you understand what you did wrong and what you have to do on that specific situation
I hope this helped you in becoming a smarter footballer...
Thankyou⚽