In the 1980s, Salman Rushdie received death threats from Iran because of his writing. On Friday, as he prepared to deliver a lecture in western New York, he was attacked.

When Rushdie was being introduced at the Chautauqua Institution, an Associated Press reporter saw a guy storm the stage and attack Rushdie. The author was carried off or knocked to the ground, and the man was bound.

Rushdie was stabbed in the neck, according to a statement later issued by the New York Police Department.

"A male suspect ran up onto stage at a speaking event & attacked Salman Rushdie & an interviewer at 11 am (local time), today in Chautauqua Institution in Chautauqua. Rushdie suffered an apparent stab wound to his neck & was transported by helicopter to a hospital," the police said.

With the publication of his second book, "Midnight's Children," in 1981, the now 75-year-old author gained international recognition and the coveted Booker Prize for its portrayal of post-independence India.

But when his 1988 book "The Satanic Verses" generated a fatwa, or religious decree, calling for his execution by Iranian revolutionary leader Ayatollah Ruhollah Khomeini, it garnered more attention than he could have imagined.

Some Muslims viewed the book as offensive to the Prophet Muhammad.
Rushdie, an atheist who was born in India to non-practicing Muslims, was compelled to flee after a bounty was placed on his head; the bounty is still in place today.

After the murder or attempted murder of his translators and publishers, the government of Britain, where he attended school and made his home, granted him police protection.

He was unable to inform his children where he lived for nearly ten years while living in concealment, frequently changing residences.
Rushdie didn't start to come out of hiding until the late 1990s, following Iran's declaration in 1998 that it would not assist his killing.

He currently resides in New York and is an advocate for the right to free speech, most notably after the staff of the French satirical publication Charlie Hebdo was assassinated by Islamists in Paris in 2015.