I have been seeing this narrative doing rounds in tonnes of blogs that men should join feminism "because" it benefits them too. While I know your post is not exclusively for that but I think it's critical to put forth the fact that feminism is essentially about women's rights because women have been the biggest victims of misogyny. We've been subjected to brutal, merciless practices because of it.

It is not my aim to diminish the negative effects of toxic masculinity nor misogyny on men; rather, I believe that feminism can and does benefit men. However, the frequency with which this narrative that men should participate in feminism because it benefits them dominates the debate intended to entice men to join the struggle for gender equality concerns me, because it portrays a highly incorrect and one-sided view of men's participation in feminism.

Misogyny devalues feminine attributes, discriminating against femininity in our actions, speech, dress, and feelings. While it's true that this can be harmful to men, it's women who are disproportionately affected by feminine disempowerment and misogyny. Men must be concerned about it as well. 

Men will just have to give up privilege in order to attain gender equality. They'll have to do difficult work, work that forces them to confront their own biases as well as the biases of others. They'll benefit from it, without a doubt, but that shouldn't be their driving force. If you call yourself a feminist but just care about how misogyny affects men, you're not a feminist.

Male feminists are not a subject to hate crimes because they tout for feminism, if anything they're hailed for it. However, women who are feminists are time and again subjected to casual discrimination and ruthless crimes for asking for equal rights. Men profiting off of women's deaths is not feminism, neither a new concept. It is our same good ol' fella, patriarchy disguised as feminism. And that is something we should keep in mind. If you're a feminist, you should be essentially fighting for the marginalized community here. Not selfishly look for "how can it benefit me?" while women are mercilessly murdered for that particular thing.