Partition is linked with the history of violence that impacted social relations, on the physical locations, and the kind of suffering that is involved, so that history of excavating suffering has been the critical move. It is imperative to change the perspective of looking at partition as not a single experience but a multiplicity of partitions that have also happened in different areas, and also over time. Especially this is something that happens in the eastern sector. We need to travel back to the moment of excavation and the suffering and the violence to just look a little bit more at the obvious, which is the violence itself.

The partition triggered violent unrest and mass immigration along the newly established borders. Fearing religious persecution, many Muslims fled to Pakistan, while Hindus and Sikhs crossed the border into India never reached their destinations “In the trail of murder and arson come the refugees. This suffering becomes a new tragedy for Indians. With few possessions, they escaped brutality and massacre that have never been surpassed even in India's turbulent history.

About a million people died and over 14 million were displaced. Most of the bloodshed happened here in Punjab and Bengal, where the new border cut through provinces that were home to Muslims, Hindus, and Sikhs. And another province, Kashmir, which fell on the border, became the center of a different conflict, dispute over ownership that would define the rivalry between the two nations for decades to come because the province of Kashmir is already in dispute. However, “India is trying to hold down by force what she managed to take by fraud. “The current hostilities began with the massive infiltration of Pakistani armed personnel”. Indians gunned down a plane that had no capability of doing anything in self-defense. It’s a barbaric act. This is India which will not only repay the losses caused by terrorists but will always fight for her right.

Therefore, the rivalry between India and Pakistan has persisted for over 70 years which was the mark of the partition a stain on India's independence.