Good god, that's scary! I hope everyone's safe. You know this already perhaps, but if you're in the path of this life-threatening hurricane, there are a few things you should keep in mind to ensure your safety. 
1. Stay indoors as much as possible. Unless it's an emergency and there is no other option, stay inside until the storm has passed. The safest place to be during a hurricane is in a building that is well-built and has strong reinforced walls.
2. Protect your windows from flying debris. Make sure that your windows are closed and taped shut, and if you can't do this, protect them with plywood or large pieces of cardboard. With this speed, some window screens may be blown away or destroyed – so it’s important to have alternative protection in case this happens. 
3. If you need to leave your house, take only what you need and go quickly. Know where the closest shelter is located and head there as soon as possible. Be aware of traffic conditions – if traffic is congested or blocked by fallen trees, do not try to cross roads: instead find an alternate route that will get you to the shelter safely. 
4. Charge your devices before leaving home – If power of your devices goes out while you're out, you may not be able to access crucial information or contact anyone outside of the household. Having extra batteries always helps in that case. Also, use your phones and other electronics as less as possible, you never know how long you'll need them.
5. You may not be able to get access to regular food or water sources for some time, so make sure you have enough sustenance stockpiled in case things go bad. Also, keep some emergency or necessary meds close. If you suffer from a chronic illness and need routinely meds, it's especially crucial.
6. PLEASE listen to local authorities and stay informed about the latest weather conditions. Do not attempt to drive if it's unsafe to do so - instead, find an evacuation shelter or nearby community that is more stable than your current location.