The UK puts Russia in a tight position economically with the sanctions- State-owned Aeroflot, Russia’s largest airline, Ural Airlines and Rossiya Airlines will now be incapable to sell their unused, lucrative landing slots at UK airports – deterring Russia from cashing in on an estimated £50 million.

Foreign Secretary Liz Truss said: "As long as Putin continues his barbarous assault on Ukraine, we will continue to target the Russian economy. We’ve already closed our airspace to Russian airlines. Today we’re making sure they can’t cash in their lucrative landing slots at our airports. Every economic sanction reinforces our clear message to Putin – we will not stop until Ukraine prevails"

These heavy sanctions on Russia are intended to stop the war. Now UK had made sure that Russia cannot benefit from the UK’s world-class aviation and transport industries. The UK has also previously banned Russia from the UK’s airspace and waters and export of aviation goods and technology.

International sanctions are putting Russia in a difficult place and even the Russian central banks have admitted that these are a major challenge to the Russian supply chains. 

The Sanctions lead to:

Several weapons manufacturers suspended their activity due to a lack of parts.

	Russia’s domestic vehicle sales have dropped by 80% partially due to a lack of components – which is also lessening the production of military vehicles.

Defence company capabilities are constrained, limiting Russia’s ability to replace advanced tech, including drones.

Energy exports in Russia are also being damaged as the crude oil exports were down 30% in April and are expected to fall further as sanctions bite. Through coordinated action across the G7 to phase out oil imports, alongside the prohibiting of critical oil refining and catalyst goods, international allies are fastening the vice on Putin’s most trusted revenue stream. Many other countries are also putting sanctions on Russia and hence we can expect Russia to stop the war from their side and end things once and for all.

Sources:Gov.Uk