📍Common symptoms of omicron variant-

In comparison to the first wave of COVID-19, more kids were infected during the second wave which was caused by the Delta variant of coronavirus. The same trend is being witnessed at present as the Omicron variant is burgeoning to different parts of the world, leading to a surge in infection cases. Kids who were earlier considered only the carrier of the virus are now equally at the risk of developing severe symptoms and hospitalisation, particularly when there is underlying health complications. The cases in India might have gone down in the past week, but the COVID variant is here to stay for a while. That's what makes it vital to know about the common symptoms of this infection in kids.

📍The common symptoms of COVID in kids-

As per a Zoe COVID Symptom study, fatigue is the most common sign of coronavirus infection in kids, followed by headache, sore throat, runny nose and sneezing. The Zoe COVID study is a smartphone app developed during the pandemic to log how people across the UK felt daily when suffering from coronavirus. The app is used by both kids and adults to track the symptoms, based on which the researchers have prepared the list of the common Omicron symptoms. As per the data available from the app, the symptoms seen in adults were different from kids. It also revealed that, in adults, runny nose is the first sign, followed by headache, fatigue and sneezing.

📍Rare symptoms of COVID in kids-

Apart from respiratory system related symptoms, the Omicron variant may also impact other organs of the body. It can lead to some uncommon symptoms like diarrhoea and rashes. However, it is rare and is witnessed in a small percentage of cases. The data collected during the study also suggest that in some cases kids may develop croup, a condition in which an airway infection leads to a dog barking sound while coughing. The study, however, did not include asymptomatic COVID-19 cases.

Read more- https://m.timesofindia.com/life-style/health-fitness/health-news/coronavirus-the-top-5-omicron-variant-symptoms-seen-in-children-as-per-a-study/amp_etphotostory/89185753.cms