Within the same 68-square-mile city that saw Congress ratify the 18th Amendment in 1919 (the law went into effect on Jan. 17, 1920), you’ll find a thriving craft cocktail scene (and even distilling scene). Speakeasy-style bars abound in the District, many with unmarked entrances, hidden doors and dimly lit lounges that will add to your evening of intrigue.

1. Silver Lyan

Silver Lyan is the downstairs cocktail bar at Riggs Washington DC, lovingly crafted by London-based bartender Ryan Chetiyawardana (commonly known as Mr. Lyan). The bar is the mastermind's first U.S. venture, and the menu and design of the space give a nod to the history of cultural exchange in America.

2. Allegory

Inside Downtown DC’s Eaton Workshop visitors will find a 200-plus room hotel that houses a progressive-minded co-working space and four unique food and drink concepts. Make your way toward the back of the hotel, peer behind a wall of books and you’ll happen upon Allegory, a sleek, shadowy cocktail bar with an extensive drink list. Settle down on a leather couch, admire the mural that pays homage to civil rights activist Ruby Bridges, along with a whimsical Alice in Wonderland theme and imbibe literary-themed.

3. Left Door

Walk just beyond the resounding cacophony of young professionals on benches at a bustling beer garden and you’ll see two doors at 1345 S Street NW. The door on the right will lead you to a dry cleaning business, while the door on the left will lead you up a staircase to the aptly named Left Door, a DC cocktail haven slinging drinks in a no-frills environment. Be on the lookout for fun seasonal beverages.

4. The Gibson

Accessible only through an unmarked door, the speakeasy makes good on faint lighting, reservable tables in secluded enclaves, a back patio to spread out and, most importantly, bespoke drinks that call your name.

5. Chicken + Whiskey

Affordable, succulent South American–style chicken in the front and 99 whiskeys in the back – that’s the name of the game at Chicken + Whiskey, the fast-casual chicken joint-whiskey bar hybrid on always-exciting 14th Street.