The 'mes que un club' is one of Europe's largest clubs, and fans have seen many iconicplayers from this club take the club to unprecedented heights in the past and present. Overthe years, players such as Johan Cruyff and Diego Maradona have shaped the club into a global powerhouse.
Others have followed in their footsteps, carrying on the club's legacy and cementing their place in Barcelona's history. And it is undeniable that Messi is the greatest player in their history. However, many other strikers have propelled the club to European zeitgeist over the years, and this article will list the top ten strikers in Barcelona history.
10 Robert Lewandowski
He is a new member of the club, having joined this season, but that does not diminish his goal-scoring exploits. Since joining the club, he has not unimpressed, scoring the eight goals and has been worth every dime for the club.
Lewandowski is efficient in front of goal and can score from any angle. His positioning during the game is important in scoring goals because he knows where to be when the ball is delivered into the box. And we're confident he'll shine in a Blauguaran jersey.
9 Ronaldo Nazário
Ronaldo may have joined for a season and became ingrained in Barcelona folklore as animportant player in a single season. He appeared in 49 games and scored 47 goals,
demonstrating his ability in front of goal.
Ronaldo was a master of deception, capable of outwitting defenders with dribbling and bodyfeints. He was a nightmare for many goalkeepers, and it was unfortunate that Barcelona fans
couldn't see him for the rest of the season.
8 Patrick Kluivert
Barcelona were fortunate to sign the Dutchman during his prime years, and the forward delivered in every game, demonstrating his capacity to score goals. Every season he crossed the 20-goal mark, proving how consistent the Dutch striker was, despite the fact that he was not fortunate enough to play under Guardiola and left the club one season before the
club won the Champions League in 2005. Kluivert left the club after appearing in 257 games and scoring 122 goals.