Amir Singh is an Arjuna award winning volleyball player, former India captain and a national selector. He has represented the country in the Asian Games of 1998 and 2002.
........... 

I consider myself lucky to have received the kind of international exposure I got through volleyball, while playing the game in the 1990s.

I have trained with coaches from all over the world, including Japan, China, Korea, Europe and Egypt. When you train with so many different coaches, you will get a clear idea about where you stand in relation to your game and also on how to improve your potential.

Unfortunately, this opportunity is not something that is readily available to youngsters who are interested in pursuing this sport today. India’s world rankings in volleyball have plummeted from
22 to 72 today.

The Union government has an extremely indifferent attitude towards the game.  Volleyball is not even in the priority list of the 14 games identified by the Sports Authority of India for promotion. The list was prepared during the last Olympics, to identify games that have a potential to win Olympic medals for the country.

The government has also reduced the time and money for volleyball. Earlier we used to conduct long camps to identify talented players, the duration of these camps have been reduced. Also the money allocated for the sport.

If a team has to do well and improve the rankings, then there should be both financial and bureaucratic support at the official level too, without that sport won’t grow. By excluding volleyball from the list of the 14 priority games, the authorities have sent a bad message to sports enthusiasts. It will dampen whatever little interest people have in taking up the game at a professional level.

It’s not that we don’t have world class coaches or talented players in our country. We have the best raw material for volleyball in India. But authorities should repose faith in the game and support it.

(Continues)

In conversation with Sangeeth Sebastian, writer and founder, VVOX, a sexual wellness platform. The series is a part of an AKADialog initiative to capture the lives of newsmakers.