Modern music is a warped and corrupted entity with hideous mutations. And while all music has been corrupted today, the worst victim of this today is modern day pop and rap which should be seriously held under the criminal charges of reducing human brain cells.
 
You don’t have the more hard hitting rap of guys like Ice-T or Eminem or the melodic and soulful pop of Eurythmics or Abba anymore, but instead the repugnant, loathsome and pathetic factory manufactured trash that is mumble rap and Cardi B.
 
The content is dull and the compositions are duller. Seriously whatever happened to intelligent music or music that actually had something more to it instead of the same mechanical beat, autotuned vocals and nonsense about money, cars, drugs, alcohol and sex.
 
Even rock and metal have been responsible for producing extremely mundane and boring stuff. Glam metal, post grunge and nu metal might be the biggest culprits of writing some of the most monotonous, lazily written crass garbage out there.  Even the modern day hard rock bands are not exactly all like Alter Bridge. But even they have some spirit and attitude.
 
Apart from intelligence and creativity, today’s music is killing the average person’s listening capacity. 3 minutes if you are generous enough with the length, 5 minutes is nearly impossible and no changes in the content, same lyrics, same rhythm, the same groove, same pattern with no attitude whatsoever apart from the fact that I am stupid rich, and rich and stupid. What is worse is that it takes a whole team to write this nonsense.
 
Let me clarify that writing music length has little to with quality, but if you are going to write a song which is only three minutes max, then introduce some changes in the structure. You can’t expect to make your music legitimately interesting by making it ultra-repetitive in all regards. These days people can’t tolerate 30 second intros to their music and consider 4 minutes long, and they don’t want to listen to anything either longer than 3 minutes or music which consists of something beyond sex and money.