The Parisians won 6-1 against Issy in matchday 19 of the Arkema D1 after a great performance in the derby.

After an intense international break and a week out from the first leg of the UEFA Women's Champions League semi-final in Lyon, the Parisians were back in league action as they hosted Issy in a Parisian derby.

The French champions did not take long to show themselves to be dangerous, as Sara Dabritz's superb effort hit the crossbar (1'). The French champions had a few more chances to score through Grace Geyoro, Sandy Baltimore and Marie-Antoinette Katoto. Paris were slowly gaining momentum...

After several saves from the opposition goalkeeper, the club's all-time top scorer found the net after a throw-in from Kadidiatou Diani, the number 9’s 16th goal of the season (1-0, 31'). However, Issy were not to be denied, as they equalised from a counter-attack (1-1, 35'). Paris still had everything to do in the second half. 

After the break, Didier Ollé-Nicolle's players turned the tide and showed their determination not to let any points slip away. They were on the attack from the start and it was through Captain Geyoro that the Rouge et Bleu regained the lead after a break led by her and a one-two with Sakina Karchaoui (2-1, 49'). The Parisian captain scored her fourth goal of the season.

Kadidiatou Diani was close to scoring the third goal of the match but she was denied by an in-form Issy keeper. The club from the capital were on their way!

The Parisians pushed forward and Sara Dabritz finally found the back of the net at the Stade Georges Lefèvre after a cross from Sakina Karchaoui (3-1, 65')! The Parisians pushed on and scored a fourth through Diani, who benefited from a defensive error by Issy (4-1, 68').

After a number of great chances for the Parisians, Katoto scored her second (5-1, 82'), and moved to 17 goals in D1 Arkema. Shortly after coming on, it was Ramona Bachmann's turn to score the sixth at the back post (6-1, 83').

Paris Saint-Germain dominated the second half and are now two points behind Olympique Lyonnais on 50 points.