Chandigarh: Former Indian cricket sensation Sachin Tendulkar’s son Arjun will feature in the forthcoming 27th All-India J P Atray memorial cricket tournament starting  from September 22. 

The junior Tendulkar will be representing Goa Cricket Association in the tournament. 

The inaugural match of the tournament will feature UTCA Chandigarh and Players XI Bihar. 
According to Capt. Sushil Kapoor, organizing secretary, 16 teams have been drawn into four pools of four teams each.  Pool-A consists of PCC , Goa Cricket Association, PSPB , Players Academy XI Delhi.  Pool- B comprising of HPCA, JKCA, Minerva Cricket Academy and Delhi Capitals Academy. Pool-C will have UTCA Chandigarh, Players XI Bihar, Baroda Cricket Association & RBI Mumbai while Pool-D has MPCA, CAG Delhi, SPJ Sports Delhi & PCA Colts.  PCA Panel umpires and scorers will be officiating during the tournament.  

The final is slated for October 3 at I.S. Bindra Cricket Stadium PCA Mohali. 

Vivek Atray convener of the tournament said that despite the crowded domestic calendar we have been able to eke out a 12 days playing time encompassing 31 matches in six venues with the candid help and support of PCA Management, U.T. Sports Department and Haryana Sports Department. We have been receiving excellent support from the management of Punjab Cricket Association for running this tournament successfully for the last two and a half decades. 

"This tournament has seen over the years more than 100 players who have gone on to don national colours. The long list includes   Kapil Dev, Chetan Sharma, Mahinder Singh Dhoni, Yuvraj Singh, Harbhajan Singh, Wasim Jaffar, Varinder Sehwag, Sourav Ganguly, Rohit Sharma, Ajinkya Rahane, Ashish Nehra, Shikhar Dhawan, Yujwinder Singh Chahal, Cheteshwar Pujara, Jaspreet Bumrah, Hardik Pandya, Kurnal Pandya, Ishan Kishan, Rishab Pant and many more," said Vivek Atray. "It’s a matter of record that eight players Virat Kohli, Rishab Pant, Ajinkya Rahane, Chiteshwar Pujara, Jaspreet Bumrah, Rohit Sharma, Shubman Gill, Ravinder Jadeja who represented India in the World Test Championship had played in the previous editions of the tournament."

 