Declan Rice

West Ham United's Declan Rice has been one of the best midfielders in the Premier League this season. The Englishman has continued his rich form from the Euros. His influence can be seen on the Hammers' positioning in the league table. 

The West Ham United captain has played 28 Premier League games this season. In this, he has provided 4 assists and also scored a goal. Rice has also scored 2 goals in the Europa League in 6 games. 

Signing Declan Rice won't be cheap! David Moyes has already indicated that clubs would have to shell out more than £100 million for the midfielder. To add to this, other Premier League giants are also interested in him. But if Manchester United do complete the signing of Declan Rice, it could surely help the club establish themselves once again! 





Ruben Neves

Manchester United had been linked with Ruben Neves in the January transfer window. But the Wolverhampton Wanderers manager Bruno Lage did not want the midfielder to leave mid-season. 

Ruben Neves has scored 4 goals and provided 2 assists in 28 Premier League games. The 25-year old has been ever-present in the Wolves set up since 2017. Owing to this, the Portuguese midfielder has 24 goals in 204 appearances for his side. 

The Red Devils would have to shell out around £50 million to sign the Wolves midfielder. But given Ruben Neves' form for his current team, the midfielder could surely help make United's midfield more resolute.  




Amadou Haidara 

Both the signings of Declan Rice and Ruben Neves could be subject to Champions League qualification. Hence Manchester United could opt for Amadou Haidara if they fail to do so. 


Amadou Haidara would be another decent choice for United! The Leipzig midfielder has scored 3 goals and provided 1 assist in 20 Bundesliga appearances this season. 


The Mali international has proved that he is one of the best central midfielders in the German League this season. Amadou Haidara's defensive attributes have been excellent. To add to this, the 24-year-old is hungry and is constantly improving himself on the pitch! 