If you aim to eat a healthy diet, then you likely know that you should try to make plenty of vegetables and fruits part of your daily menu while keeping an eye on how much sugar, fat, and salt you're consuming on a regular basis. If you're getting too much of the latter three, it can lead to serious health issues. That's why you may be interested to find out that new research has shown opting for a low-sodium salt substitute is a simple eating habit that can lower the risk of both disease and death. 
In an analysis recently published in the journal Heart, researchers took a look at 21 trials that involved a total of 31,949 participants. While paying attention to how salt substitutes might affect health, the findings showed that each time the amount of sodium chloride dropped in a salt substitute by 10%, there was also a reduction in systolic blood pressure and diastolic blood pressure. Salt substitutes also offered protection when it came to cardiovascular events, cardiovascular mortality, and total mortality. The results were consistent across participants of different ages, locations, and trials.
"These findings are unlikely to reflect the play of chance and support the adoption of salt substitutes in clinical practice and public health policy as a strategy to reduce dietary sodium intake, increase dietary potassium intake, lower blood pressure, and prevent major cardiovascular events," the researchers behind the findings explained, according to Medscape.
Indeed, Jen Hernandez, RDN, CSR, LDN, Registered Dietitian and Founder of Plant-Powered Kidneys, tells Eat This, Not That!, "salt substitutes can be a healthier option for many people. This is because the primary ingredient used for the salty flavor is potassium chloride instead of sodium chloride."
Why potassium matters when it comes to salt substitutes
The most common type of salt substitute is potassium chloride, which provides a similar salty flavor without sodium. 
Read more - https://www.eatthis.com/news-salt-substitute-lower-disease-and-death-risk/