UK Prime Minister Boris Johnson announced “first wave of sanctions” hitting at the heart of Russian President Vladimir Putin’s inner circle – three billionaire  oligarchs of Russia with British interests – and banks which had funded Russia’s invasion of Ukraine, and eventual occupation of Crimea, in 2014.

Alarmed by renewed attacks of Russia backed militia and 200,000 troops ready for assault on Ukraine, UK’s latest sanctions are meant to prevent the Russian state and key companies, close to Putin, from raising funds from the British market. Five Russian banks – including Bank Rossiya and Promsvyazbank – were “surgically targeted” to isolate them from the global economy. Bank Rossiya has deep ties with the Kremlin and Promsvyazbank is the key bank that supports Russia’s defence sector.

The UK froze assets and imposed travel bans on three leading Russian elites, including Gennadiy Timchenko, Boris Rotenberg and his nephew Igor Rotenberg, all close to the Kremlin. Timchenko, reported to be worth $23.5bn, has stakes in several Russian businesses including gas, petrochemical, investment, transport and    infrastructure. He has been a friend of Putin since the 1990s when the minor politician became the President of Russia. He is also a shareholder in Rossiya and has helped destabilisation of Ukraine and annexation of Crimea. Rotenberg, worth $1.2bn, is Putin’s childhood friend and co-owner of SMP Bank that has benefitted from the government. They were also awarded billions of dollars in contracts with Gazprom, the state-owned gas company. The 48-year-old Igor Rotenberg, worth $1.1bn, with close familial ties with Putin with business interests in key Russian companies.

The UK will work with US and other NATO partners to isolate Russia from the global economy, so that oligarchs and businesses find it difficult to operate outside the Russian borders. However, it will be clear in the next few weeks whether these business tycoons have already stashed money elsewhere to insulate their assets from sanctions, fully apprehending a war in Ukraine.

READ MORE:

https://www.gov.uk/government/news/uk-hits-russian-oligarchs-and-banks-with-targeted-sanctions-foreign-secretary-statement

https://www.bbc.com/news/uk-politics-60476137

https://news.sky.com/story/amp/ukraine-crisis-who-are-the-three-russian-oligarchs-dubbed-putins-cronies-hit-by-uk-sanctions-12548762