If there is one similarity that almost all music shares, it is that the vocals are more often than not the most memorable aspect of music. 

Much like classical music, rock and metal too rely greatly on vocals, particularly on powerful vocal techniques that few can achieve, thus often pushing people to their physical limits.

The frontman is always the one most thrust into the limelight, and often it is their voice that defines the band. 

So much goes into fronting a band, from singing to lyrics to stage presence to endurance, and while stage presence and the ability to whip the largest of gatherings into a frenzy are certainly key ingredients, it is ultimately the quality of the singer to stand out and project their presence in a way that makes them stand out, as well as do justice to the song.

A band has a head start if their frontman has range, power, articulation, and technical control, but to be truly iconic they also need to break boundaries, possess an indefinable charisma and be able to commuicate emotionally, putting them in a class of their own.

Some of the greats are all well versed in music theory while some let the music naturally come to them. Whatever their methods, a truly iconic vocalist possesses a strength that simply can’t be copied or invented. It can only ever be natural.





These are the top 20 greatest rock and metal vocalists :


1. Bruce Dickinson (Iron Maiden)
2. Ronnie James Dio (Rainbow, Black Sabbath, Dio)
3. Bob Catley (Magnum)
4. Freddie Mercury (Queen)
5. Rob Halford (Judas Priest)
6. Hansi Kürsch (Blind Guardian)
7. Roy Khan (Kamelot, Conception)
8. Ian Gillian (Deep Purple)
9. Russell Allan (Symphony X, Adrenaline Mob, Sons of Apollo)
10. Robert Plant (Led Zeppelin)
11. Geoff Tate (Queensryche)
12. Peter Steele (Type O Negative)
13. Ville Vallo (HIM)
14. Jørn Lande (Masterplan, Ark, Millenium, Beyond Twilight, Vagabond, The Snakes, Avantasia)
15. Myles Kennedy (Alter Bridge, Slash)
16. Layne Staley (Alice In Chains)
17. Chris Cornell (Soundgarden, Audioslave)
18. Tarja Turunen (Nightwish)
19. Floor Jansen (Nightwish, After Forever, Ayreon)
20. Simone Simones (Epica)