Over the past two decades, the Horn of Africa – specifically Ethiopia, Somalia and Kenya – has experienced more intense and frequent droughts.

The affected areas in the three countries include vast rangelands, home to millions of people, livestock and wildlife. These areas are classified as arid and semi-arid lands.

These drylands also constitute a biodiversity hotspot. They harbour endangered species like the hirola antelope, African wild dog, Somali giraffe and Grevy’s zebra. But these species face an uncertain future due to severe and recurring droughts.

I’m a Kenyan scientist and conservationist. One of the hats I wear is as the founder and director of Kenya’s Hirola Conservation Programme. I have over 15 years of experience working with communities and wildlife in remote areas along the volatile Kenya-Somalia border region. I’ve seen at first hand the devastating effect that these droughts have on wildlife and the habitat around them.

For example, from my observations over the past year, I’ve estimated that 30 endangered hirola (about 6% of the global population) have died as a direct consequence of drought. This is based on our monitoring of the herds. Hirola live in a small area and we are able to monitor nearly every herd across their range.

Similarly, and during the same period, the deaths of more than 200 giraffes (mostly young and female adults) were reported by members of the Northeastern Kenya wildlife Conservancies Association and by the Somali giraffe project. This data is estimated from community scout monitoring across conservancies.

There have also been recent reports that about 70 elephants have died over the past year due to drought in the Tsavo area.

Impacts of drought
Rangelands are already dry areas. Drought adds to the pressure on resources like water and pasture. This makes livestock and wildlife more susceptible to malnutrition, disease, mass mortalities and competition with each other over resources.

In a study in eastern Kenya, I found that between 1970 and 2009, increased drought caused a decline in the area of land covered by grass.

Read more: https://theconversation.com/saving-east-africas-wildlife-from-recurring-drought-183844