Persian was an important lingua franca across the Indian Subcontinent from the 14th to the 19th century. First introduced by the Delhi Sultanate as one of its court languages, the language was cultivated and spread by the sultanates of the Deccan and the Mughal Empire. During the medieval era, the city of Hyderabad became an especially influential center of Persianate culture. Here, it flourished as a language of learning and power alongside the region’s older court languages like Telugu. It was only in the nineteenth century, following the violent disruptions of British colonialism, that Persian lost its cosmopolitan appeal and Indian intellectuals felt compelled to turn to other languages such as English and Urdu. 

During those five centuries, books were written, poetry was composed, and arguments and debates carried out in Persian. Persian texts and culture did not only flow outward from Iran but instead had multiple centers across South Asia. The central importance of South Asia to the Persian world becomes clearer when we consider that by the 1800s, more people in India could read and write Persian than in Iran.

South Asian elites, regardless of their ethnic origins, commissioned translation projects of major Sanskrit works like the Ramayana and Mahabharata into Persian. Indo-Persian poets like Amir Khusrao (14th c.) achieved fame not only in Delhi and its surroundings but across the broader Persianate world. 

It was precisely Persian’s cosmopolitan nature that motivated Mughal Emperor Akbar to establish it as the official language of the empire in the 1500s, as it was seen as accommodating and not alien or restricted to one specific group.

Persian’s past role in South Asia echoes the role it has in Iran today, where it is still the official language. Around half of Iranians today speak a language other than Persian as their native tongue. They learn Persian at school as a literary language and one that helps them communicate with other Iranians, regardless of their native language. This is similar to Indians in the past, who learned Persian to supplement – not replace – their mother tongue.

Like one popular proverb in South Asian Persian speaks to this outlook: 'Arabic is science, Persian is sugar, Hindi is salt, and Turki is art '