A Strategy to Deter Terrorism continues.... 

Most Palestinian suicide bombers have come from middle-class homes. They didn’t do what they did to escape poverty.

And some of the most radical imams in America have doctorates.This Gallup’s survey of Muslims, the largest conducted, puts to rest theories that Islamic terrorists attack because they are poor and alienated from society. Or because they are dim and easily misled.

Muslim fundamentalists have an education and an economic future, yet they still terrorize and hate. They are literate enough to liberally interpret their holy books, yet they still embrace Jihad against Kafirs, and revel in obscurantism and violence.

The fourth lesson to learn is that more than the overt threat of the terrorists in India, the more sinister corrosion of our nation state occurs from within. This corrosion provides “a force multiplier” to the terrorists. That is, the terrorists are able to leverage the influence of highly placed individuals in the government, media and academia, who have been compromised by the terrorists and blackmailed on sex, drug money and illegitimate favours, into collaborating with them. Take for example the assassination of Rajiv Gandhi. He had been the Prime Minister, and the LTTE killed him because it claimed that he had to be punished for sending the IPKF to Sri Lanka. The dispatch of the Indian army was a government policy ratified by Parliament, and yet the LTTE, a foreign terrorist organization, arrogated to itself the right to hold Rajiv Gandhi responsible and to be murdered for it. In other words, the assassination of Rajiv Gandhi was LTTE’s challenge to India’s sovereignty and self-respect itself, in that a foreign terrorist organization can decide to kill because it does not like a policy of the Government of India. Incidentally and surprisingly, the LTTE itself was a party to the decision to send the IPKF, but found soon enough that Indian Army was not going to do the LTTE’s dirty work and hand over Eelam to them on a platter. So they turned against India. So, it was their perfidy that needs punishing.

To be continued.... 

( This account is maintained by Har Anand Publication)