Russia is planning to split Ukraine into two, the way North and South Korea were created in the mid-1950s, said Kyrylo Budanov, the military intelligence chief of Ukraine in a statement. According to him, this is Vladimir Putin’s latest plan after Russian invaders failed to capture much of Ukraine in the past four weeks.

Budanov made this announcement in the wake of the Russian Ministry’s recent announcement that they are going to shift military strategy as their troops had reduced Ukraine’s military capability in the first phase of assault. The ministry said Russian troops would now focus on the liberation of Russian speaking eastern provinces of Donbass – Donetsk and Luhansk – where Russia-backed separatists have already established enclaves.   

Despite the claim of a new military strategy, the truth is that when Russia launched the invasion on February 24, it had failed to foresee strong resistance by Ukraine. Ukraine’s determined citizens, robust guerrilla warfare technique of its army, bolstered by sophisticated weaponry of the US and its allies, stalled Russians who had aimed to capture the capital Kyiv and its main cities. But in more than a month, Russia lost around 15,000 soldiers, including 7 generals, and hundreds of tanks. Desperate Russians launched lethal missiles and illegal cluster bombs to subdue the dogged resistance by Ukraine. But except for a few posts like Kherson, they’ve failed to capture any of the key cities.

According to Budanov, the defeated Russian forces are now going for a face-saving exercise by imposing a “dividing line between the unoccupied and occupied regions” of their country in the way Korea was divided. Since 1950-53 the two Koreas have been technically fighting a war since the conflict ended in an armistice, but not a peace treaty. Now the Korean peninsula is divided by a wide border that runs as a Demilitarised Zone for over 200 miles.  

The tension between the South and North Korea still simmers as the North ruled by an autocrat keeps the territory under an iron curtain and oppressive rule.        

READ MORE: 

https://www.aljazeera.com/news/2022/3/27/russia-is-considering-a-korean-scenario-for-ukraine

https://www.theguardian.com/world/2022/mar/27/putin-wants-korean-scenario-for-ukraine-says-intelligence-chief

https://thehill.com/policy/international/599931-russia-wants-to-split-ukraine-into-two-military-intel-chief-says