ELection Commission of India extends ban on physical rallies and road shows till January 31, 2022. 

1) No road show, Pad-yatra, cycle/bike/vehicle rally and procession shall be allowed till January 31, 2022.
(2) Since contesting candidates for Phase 1 elections will be finalised on January 27, 2022, Commission has decided to allow physical meetings of concerned Political parties or contesting candidates in designated open spaces with a maximum of 500 persons or 50% of the capacity of the ground or the prescribed limit set by SDMA, whichever number is lesser, from January 28, 2022 till February 8, 2022 (excluding the silence period).
(3) Since contesting candidates for Phase 2 elections will be finalised on January 31 2022, Commission has decided to allow physical meetings of concerned Political parties or contesting candidates with public in designated open spaces with a maximum of 500 persons or 50% of the capacity of the ground or the prescribed limit set by SDMA, whichever number is lesser, from February 1, 2022 till February 12, 2022 (excluding the silence period).
(4) The Commission has also enhanced the limit of door to door campaign. Instead of 5 persons, now 10 persons, excluding security personnel, will be allowed for door to door campaigns. Other instructions on door to door campaigns will continue.

The Election Commission of India today held a review meeting with the Secretary, Ministry of Health and Family Welfare, Government of India through virtual mode. The Commission also held virtual meetings with Chief Secretaries, Chief Electoral Officers and Health Secretaries of Goa, Manipur, Punjab, Uttarakhand and Uttar Pradesh.
Chief Election Commissioner Shri Sushil Chandra along with Election Commissioners Shri Rajiv Kumar and Shri Anup Chandra Pandey accompanied by Secretary General and concerned Deputy Election Commissioners held a comprehensive review of the present situation with respect to status and projected trends of COVID pandemic in the five poll going states. The Commission also reviewed Vaccination status and action plan for expeditiously completing vaccination for 1st, 2nd and booster dose for eligible persons amongst polling personnel. The Commission deliberated on relaxing restrictions for physical rallies in the wake of prevailing situation.