When I tuned in to Knicks-Clippers on Sunday night, I was preparing to write something about how Tom Thibodeau is repeating old habits by leaning way too much on his veterans—or about how he was secretly tanking. On Friday against the Suns, he pulled an on-fire Cam Reddish for Evan Fournier, who can’t stay in front of anyone on defense and is frustratingly streaky on offense. It was a total head-scratcher that made no sense. But then came a decisive win over the Clippers, with Thibodeau playing all his youngsters big minutes.

Absences opened the door. Taj Gibson was sidelined with an illness, Nerlens Noel is suffering from plantar fasciitis, and Obi Toppin has a strained hamstring. With so many minutes available, Reddish played 25, while second-round picks Jericho Sims and Miles “Deuce” McBride logged 20 and 18, respectively. To start the second quarter, Thibodeau deployed a lineup of McBride (21 years old), Reddish (22), Sims (23), Immanuel Quickley (22), and RJ Barrett (21). Watch their energy on the first play:

McBride is pressuring Reggie Jackson. Quickley is flying through screens to stick to Luke Kennard before switching on to Robert Covington to tightly contest his shot. Sims put a punctuation mark on the possession by grabbing the rebound, something he did 11 times on Sunday. And up the floor on offense, Barrett rewards the big man with a lob.

Sims is a high-flier. He has some DeAndre Jordan in him as a lob threat with a nose for the boards. Any time he gets minutes, he competes. Sims will switch on the perimeter, something he showed in college at Texas, but he’ll also battle in the post. Sims was drafted 58th and he still needs to curtail his fouling problems, but he’s shown enough promise to deserve some extended run down the stretch.

Throughout the game, different combinations of young Knicks lineups helped maintain their double-digit lead with constant hustle and energy. It felt like last season, when the Knicks were often a feel-good story and not a source of frustration.

Read more
https://www.theringer.com/nba/2022/3/7/22965361/jarrett-allen-injury-knicks-sixers