Katie Holmes used to have a poster of Tom Cruise on her wall. In 2004, she told Seventeen magazine that she thought she was going to marry him. The couple later became engaged and had their first child, Suri, in 2006. The pair split in 2012.

Nick Cannon must have felt like he hit the lotto when his "dream girl" said "I do" growing up as a lover of Mariah Carey's songs and appearance. Unfortunately, Nick was not destined to be her baby forever: the pair divorced in 2016.

Anne Hathaway's fans include producer Adam Shulman, who married her in 2012. Shulman had long been a fan of the actor, which he likely told her after they met through mutual friends a few years before marrying.

    Rapper Wiz Khalifa and model Amber Rose each had flourishing careers before they began dating, but it was clear from their public demonstrations of affection that they had been considering each other for some time. Their union was brief but wonderful, and it appears that they are still supporting one another after divorcing in 2016. The first time I ever saw this lovely man was in this photograph.

Hailey Bieber (née Baldwin) was a well-known Belieber before she met Justin Bieber. A much younger Hailey tweeted at and about the celebrity. She waited in line with other admirers to see him outside her hotel, and eventually saw him owing to her father.

Steve Harvey, a comedian and Family Feud presenter, met his future wife for the first time in the front row of a 1990 comedy event in Memphis. The two dated for a short while, but Marjorie Harvey (née Bridges) and Steve didn't start dating seriously until they reconnected in 2005. Two years later, they got married, and they've been blissfully married ever since.

Kanye West was enamoured and inquired about this "Kim Kar-dijon" woman after seeing a photo of Kim Kardashian in 2006 with her friend Paris Hilton. While Kim was still dating Kris Humphries, the two started dating later in 2012, when both of their careers were at even higher points. The pair divorced in 2021.