Myth Busters about PCOS/PCOD🙀
MYTH : Junk food, being overweight, stress and hormonal disturbances are general causes for this condition.
🌟 It's just a fantastic way to blame people for their condition. No-Junk food, being overweight, and hormonal disturbances cause PCOS.
EVEN THE BEST OF RESEARCHERS ACROSS THE WORLD DON'T KNOW WHAT CAUSES PCOS.
MYTH : Women with PCOD retain the ability to ovulate periodically and so can conceive successfully with a little medical assistance.
🌟 PCOD does not mean infertility. So many people with PCOS/PCOD conceive without any intervention. SO MANY!
MYTH : If someone suffering from PCOS, the ovaries produce a higher quantity of male hormones. This stops the release of the egg leading to anovulation or a lack of ovulation. PCOS is more severe than PCOD.
🌟 Anovulation does not happen because of male hormones. It happens because of immature follicles become the threshold level of estrogen for ovulation gets messed up. Also PCOS IS NOT A MORE SEVERE FORM OF PCOD.
MYTH : The most common symptoms of PCOD are irregular periods, abdominal weight gain, infertility and male pattern hair lose or hair thinning.
Common symptoms for PCOS are hair loss, obesity, acne and infertility.
🌟 They just cheryy picked symptoms and divided them into two on god knows what basis.(How are the symptoms still the same!!?)
MYTH : In both PCOD and PCOS, losing weight, eating a healthy diet that is free of processed and junk food and following regular exercise has shown big improvements.
🌟 Losing weight is not necessary for managing PCOS. We also have lean PCOS patients. Eating a diet free of processed and junk food is also just a hype. Is this suggesting that people who eat purely organic, unprocessed food don't get PCOS?
We have patients of PCOS in villages too and did you know that the roti you eat is  processed food. It's processed from wheat grown in the fields into flour which in turn is turned into a dough which in turn is cooked into a roti.🫓 
Hope it'll be helpful for you , let me know in the notes if you also have the misconceptions mentioned above.