Elizabeth Ann Gilmouris an American child safety activist and commentator for ABC News. She attained national attention at the age of 14 when she was kidnaped from her home in Salt Lake City by Brian David Mitchell. Mitchell and his wife, Wanda Barzee, held Smart captive for nine months until she was rescued by police officers on a street in Sandy, Utah.

Smart has since gone on to work as an activist and advocate for missing persons. Her life and abduction have been the content of numerous non-fiction books and films.

On June 5, 2002, at the age of 14, Smart was abducted at knifepoint from her bedroom in her family's house in Salt Lake City, Utah. For the next nine months, Smart was raped daily, tied up, and threatened with death if she tried to escape. She was rescued by police officers on March 12, 2003, on a public street in Sandy, Utah. On March 8, 2006, Smart went before the United States Congress to support sexual predator legislation and the AMBER Alert system. 

On July 26, 2006, she spoke after the signing of the Adam Walsh Act. In May 2008, she traveled to Washington, D.C., where she supported present a book, You're Not Alone, published by the U.S. Department of Justice. It contained entries from her as well as four other recovered young adults.

Having been raped by her captor, she recalled the destructive consequence of susceptibility to illicit sexual education programs. Many of them teach that a sexually active girl is akin to a chewed piece of gum. "I thought, 'Oh, my gosh, I'm that chewed up piece of gum, nobody re-chews a piece of gum, you throw it away.' And that's how easy it is to feel like you no longer have worth, you no longer have value," Smart said. "Why would it even be worth screaming out? Why would it even make a difference if you are rescued? Your life still has no value." Smart went on to ask that listeners teach children about having self-worth, preventing viewing themselves as victims. She continues her good work.

Source: Wikipedia.