Some may be hesitant to get vaccinated due to claims of a possible link between COVID-19 vaccines and abnormal menstrual cycles.

So far, clinical trials of COVID-19 vaccines have not collected menstrual cycle data post-vaccine. By May 2021, however, a small number of people had reported menstrual-cycle-related issues.

The authors of a new study write that “[t]he International Federation of Gynecology and Obstetrics classifies a variation in cycle length as normal if less than 8 days.” Also, stress can cause cycle lengths to varyTrusted Source or lead to a person skipping a cycle.

This normal variability may be concerning when taken in conjunction with COVID-19 vaccines.

A lack of population-level evidence of the relationship between COVID-19 vaccines and menstrual cycles limits healthcare professionals in addressing concerns about possible menstrual side effects.

Researchers funded by the National Institutes of Health (NIH) recently set out to investigate the relationship between menstrual cycle length and COVID-19 vaccination.

Medical News Today spoke with Dr. Victoria Male, a lecturer in reproductive immunology at Imperial College London in the United Kingdom who was not involved in the study.

She said, “The main finding of the study is that people who receive both doses of the vaccine in the same cycle experience, on average, a delay to their next period of 2 days.”

“However, their periods returned to normal within two cycles. People receiving their first dose do not experience a delay to their periods, and those receiving their second dose experience on average less than half a day’s delay,” she added.

“The findings were reassuring and reinforced the overall safety of COVID-19 vaccines, as it described a mild and temporary impact on the menstrual cycle length of vaccinated study participants. The authors found that the cycle length change was less than 1 day and temporary, resolving within two post-vaccination cycles,” said Dr. Amy Roskin, chief medical officer at The Pill Club — a digital health company — who was not involved in the study.

Read more- https://www.medicalnewstoday.com/articles/covid-19-vaccines-linked-to-temporary-increase-in-menstrual-cycle-length#Natural-cycles