China is making an audacious attempt to muscle in on the Pacific's most important high-level gathering, pushing for a meeting with the region's foreign ministers on the same day leaders come together in Fiji for the Pacific Islands Forum (PIF).

The ABC has been told that Beijing has invited ministers from all 10 Pacific Island states it has diplomatic relations with to a virtual meeting with Chinese Foreign Minister Wang Yi on July 14.

The timing is deeply contentious because that is the same day Pacific leaders are due to hold their final retreat at the end of the Pacific Islands Forum meeting in Fiji's capital Suva.

The PIF leaders meeting is particularly crucial this year because it is their first in-person gathering since the pandemic hit in 2020.

They last met face-to-face in Tuvalu in 2019.

The forum is also hoping to use the meeting in Fiji to heal a damaging internal split over leadership after a small group of leaders struck an interim deal in Suva earlier this month.

It has already moved to postpone a formal in-person dialogue with PIF dialogue partners — including the United States and China – partly because some Pacific representatives do not want intensifying geo-strategic competition in the region to weigh too heavily on the meeting in Fiji.

Pacific leaders push back against China's meeting proposal

But Beijing's proposal to hold its own meeting with the Pacific leaders during the forum seems to signal that the Chinese Foreign Ministry remains determined to push forward its agenda during a crucial week of regional diplomacy.

One Western government official told the ABC that at least two Pacific Island states were pushing back against the proposal because they did not believe the timing was appropriate.

Pacific Island foreign ministers last met the Chinese minister just one month ago, when he hosted them for a virtual meeting from Fiji in the midst of a long Pacific tour.

Mr Wang was forced to shelve a sweeping regional economic and security pact with the Pacific in the wake of that meeting after some countries raised concerns.

Read more 
https://www.abc.net.au/news/2022-06-27/china-pushes-for-pacific-foreign-ministers-meeting/101186148