Rene and Iniyan are seen in a totally romantic mood in the first scene of Natchathiram Nagargiradhu. Rene is very fond of Ilayaraja songs and while she sings one after another, Iniyan scolds her in his sleepy mood. What follows next is a heated argument between them and Iniyan mentions Rene’s caste pinpointing her old name Tamil or Tamizh. It ends in an instant breakup. This may sound normal if it wasn’t a Pa Ranjith movie and if Rene wouldn’t have expressed herself that deep and sharp to her lover. The entire movie is about her fight against discrimination based on caste and how she glues broken pieces of herself. Am I leading you to a usual construct of a Pa Ranjith movie? Absolutely not. You would see a much lighter, open-hearted, romantic, theatre ambiance in Natchathiram Nagargiradhu. All sorts of lovers - lesbians, gays, transwomen, heterosexuals create a beautiful layout of love, sex, politics, and political correctness. PaR has polished the background of the progressive theatre movement and used it with the right mix of talented new artists. Equal in performances and roles they are inseparable to Kalidas and Dushara, the leads.In my view, Dushara represents Pa Ranjith’s thoughts and emotions in this film. A strong character who speaks and acts on her own in every scenario representing her politics and political correctness. Interesting to note her cool return to her organic self after any unpleasant situation. As Arjun (Kalaiarasan) doubts, the admiration from far and the broken image in the close-up don’t make her weak. She can still laugh at others’ pettiness and quote brainy stuff from her reads casually in demanded scenarios. She is never a pessimist rebel. Her forte is in utilizing politically incorrect scenarios as mirrors against the doers and correcting them politically. What a gentle and strong technique applied by the director to convey his politics!Natchathiram Nagargiradhu is not preachy about honour killing but the script holds a responsible approach to its heinous aspects. I didn’t like the twist in the end. Did you see a Joker in that villain?