Sarina Wiegman's 24-player squad for the FIFA Women's World Cup Australia and New Zealand 2023 qualifiers against North Macedonia and Northern Ireland was revealed by the Football Association this afternoon.

On Friday, April 8, the Lionesses face North Macedonia in Skopje before facing Northern Ireland in front of a large crowd at Windsor Park on Tuesday, April 12.

Wiegman has kept faith with the players who have served her so well during her eight months in command, as predicted. Fran Kirby is unable to compete due to illness, while Steph Houghton remains injured. Beth England of Chelsea has been recalled in place of clubmate Kirby.

If Austria fails to win all of their matches against Northern Ireland and Latvia next month, England might book their place at the FIFA Women's World Cup Australia and New Zealand 2023 with back-to-back victories. With four matches remaining, England is five points clear at the top of their group. So far, the Lionesses have won all six qualifying matches, scoring 53 goals and conceding none.

After winning the inaugural Women's Arnold Clark cup during the last international window in February, Wiegman's team returns to action in April. England won the trophy ahead of Spain, Canada, and Germany.

England squad to face North Macedonia/Northern Ireland:


Goalkeepers: 

Mary Earps (Manchester United)

Hannah Hampton (Aston Villa)

Ellie Roebuck (Manchester City)


Defenders:

Millie Bright (Chelsea)

Lucy Bronze (Manchester City)

Jess Carter (Chelsea)

Niamh Charles (Chelsea)

Rachel Daly (Houston Dash)

Alex Greenwood (Manchester City)

Demi Stokes (Manchester City)

Leah Williamson (Arsenal)

Lotte Wubben-Moy (Arsenal)



Midfielders: 

Jordan Nobbs (Arsenal)

Jill Scott (Manchester City – on loan at Aston Villa)

Georgia Stanway (Manchester City)

Keira Walsh (Manchester City)

Katie Zelem (Manchester United)


Forwards: 

Beth England (Chelsea)

Lauren Hemp (Manchester City)

Beth Mead (Arsenal)

Nikita Parris (Arsenal)

Alessia Russo (Manchester United)

Ella Toone (Manchester United)

Ellen White (Manchester City)