To explain to ourselves what went wrong in the relationship, there's a great urge to tattoo our ex's foreheads with an armchair diagnosis, and labels like narcissist frequently crop up. It was never going to work out because he/she/they are narcissists! It wasn't me, it wasn't my fault, it was never going to work out because he/she/they are narcissists! It's one of those labels, like crazy or poisonous, that feels wonderful to use when you're furious or hurting because of a loved one's selfishness.

However, in an age where everyone has at least five psych 101 definitions up their sleeves, it's critical to be cautious about how we label people, especially those who have injured us.
That said, narcissistic personality disorder (NPD) is a very genuine diagnosis that can wreck havoc on every connection a person has, frequently inflicting long-term harm to those who know them, so it's vital to have a clear understanding of what narcissism is. So, how does narcissism manifest itself in the context of a relationship? And, if you're dating a narcissist, how should you deal with the situation?
How Does Narcissism Manifest in Relationships? 

The so-called love-bombing period is one of the most typical early signs of narcissism. The narcissist will frequently come on hard at the start of the relationship, placing you on a pedestal and making you feel really special.
"At first, he treated me like an absolute queen," Anna, 28, said of her encounter. He put me on a pedestal several times ("You're the lady I've been seeking for my whole life"—red flag!) and was really generous." These are common occurrences.

They may lavish attention on you, take you out on expensive dates, and shower you with presents, all while boosting your ego. They're also inclined to proclaim "I love you" much too soon. Unfortunately, this illusory joy is generally only temporary.
When it comes to relationships, the narcissist's utter lack of empathy and inability to detect others' feelings makes cultivating true bonds and being a supporting spouse extremely challenging.