As global temperatures and sea levels rise, as the oceans acidify and precipitation patterns get rearranged, people living in poverty are the most severely impacted. Since climate change affects everything from where a person can live to their access to health care, millions of people could be plunged further into poverty as environmental conditions worsen. 

This is especially true for poor people living in low-income countries. Just as climate change deepens inequalities within a country, it also further stratifies international relations because some nations are more threatened by it than others. And poor countries have fewer resources to deal with the problem. 

The world’s poorest communities often live on the most fragile land, and they are often politically, socially, and economically marginalized, making them especially vulnerable to the impacts of climate change. More frequent and intense storms, flooding, drought, and changes in rainfall patterns are already impacting these communities, making it difficult for them to secure decent livelihoods.

For example, communities in the Rwenzori region of Uganda, have been trying to protect themselves from landslides and floods by digging trenches and planting trees, helping to prevent soil erosion.
But it has not always been a success.
The rains have become so intense that huge, sudden floods are sweeping away these defences.
Thus, there have been multiple landslides on mountain slopes which have buried settlements and farms. Thus, solutions like adaptation works based on soil conservation are proving to be increasingly useless in the wake of these extreme weather events.

A new GFDRR-supported report shows that climate change has the power to push more than 100 million people into poverty over the next fifteen years.  And the poorest regions of the world – Sub-Saharan Africa and South Asia – will be hit the hardest. 

This requires that poverty reduction and development work be carried out as a priority while considering changing climate.  It also means taking targeted action to help people cope with climate shocks – such as developing early warning systems, flood protection, and introducing heat-resistant crops.  At the same time, efforts to reduce emissions should accelerate, and be designed to protect the poor.