After Russia’s Ukraine invasion, the US president Joe Biden announced a barrage of sanctions which included those targeted to “degrade their [Russia’s] aerospace industry, including their space programme”. 

Promptly Dmitry Rogozin, Director General of Roscosmos, a state corporation of the Russian Federation responsible for space flights, retorted suggesting on Twitter that if US blocked cooperation with them, the International Space Station (ISS) may crash from the orbit on US, Europe, India or China. Rogozin is known for similar outrages before, including his extreme comments when Russia annexed Crimea in 2014. He had suggested US astronauts use a “trampoline” to find their way to the ISS instead of Russia’s Soyuz spacecraft.    

ISS, a multinational collaborative project involving five participating space agencies of 15 nations, is a habitable artificial satellite in Earth’s low orbit. Launched from Russian Cosmodrome Baikonur in 1998, this state-of-the art orbiting laboratory is a brilliant example of co-operation between NASA, the US space agency, and its Russian counterpart, assisted by an international consortium of space scientists.  At this moment, four astronauts from NASA, two cosmonauts from Russia and one European astronaut are stationed at ISS.    

The space lab was conceived during the Cold War era and ever since it was placed in orbit, space experts from several nations have peacefully worked there.   

But the peaceful co-existence first suffered a jolt in November 2021 when Russian military tested weapons on a dead satellite which created debris endangering safety of seven astronauts aboard the ISS.  

Space analysts say that new sanctions will surely endanger the space station, but that may lead to an end of diplomatic relations, and not an abrupt crash of the space lab. The US has long depended on Russian Soyuz spacecraft for sending crew to ISS. If the sanctions break apart Russian and American collaboration, space shuttles by US private company SpaceX and American multinational company Boeing will replace the Russian spacecraft in the long run. 

READ MORE:

 https://www.euronews.com/next/2022/02/25/ukraine-russian-space-chief-suggests-iss-could-crash-into-us-or-europe-as-a-result-of-sanc

https://www.cnbc.com/2022/02/25/nasa-and-space-partnerships-with-russia-face-ukraine-challenge.html

https://www.scientificamerican.com/article/russias-invasion-of-ukraine-strains-international-space-station-partnership/