By Surinder Singh Oberoi

Eleven Afghan Sikhs arrived in India on June 30 with the ashes of Sawinder Singh, who was killed in an attack on a Gurdwara in Kabul by a particular Indian flight. 

On June 18 2022, a car laden with explosives rammed into the Sikh temple, killing a Sikh and injuring three other devotees. Also, Taliban officials said a local security guard on duty was killed in the blast. 

The Indian government on June 19 granted emergency e-visas to 111 Hindus and Sikhs from Afghanistan, hours after a terrorist group ISIS-K attacked the Gurdwara in Afghanistan. 

Sawinder Singh ran a small business shop in Kabul and lived in the Gurdwara. His family lives in Delhi.

It is happening when India plans to open up its mission in Kabul, and some minuscule services and humanitarian aid have been activated even though the Indian staff of the Indian embassy is yet to join the duties in Kabul.

Second attack on a Sikh temple in Kabul

In 2020, an attack by the ISIS-K armed group on a Gurudwara in Kabul left 25 dead and triggered an exodus of Sikhs from the country. 

The recent attack has shaken the left behind Sikh/Hindu communities, numbering around 150 in Afghanistan, a community that once numbered approximately 200,000 members in the 1970s. 

Years of religious persecution and conflict have forced thousands of minorities in Afghanistan, mostly Hindus and Sikhs, Christians, Shias, and Ahmadi, to leave the country. 

They are now living a life of refugees in India, Pakistan, Tajikistan, Australia, New Zealand and several other countries. 

Increase of the ISIS-K attacks after the Taliban took over Afghanistan

VOA reported that American military assessments have warned that al-Qaida and ISIS-K are growing in strength since the Taliban takeover of Afghanistan and could pose a significant threat beyond the country's borders. While the Taliban claim they have ended the war and restored peace in Afghanistan, ISIS fighters have continued attacking civilians in different parts of Afghanistan. 

Read the full story here:- https://www.newsdrum.in/analysis/minorities-stay-targeted-in-afghanistan-despite-assurance-from-the-ruling-taliban-54091.html