Rotaract Club of Calcutta Universe and Rotaract Club of Laketown Conquerors are extremely delighted to have initiated the biggest and most widely and anticipated and awaited Sharod Shamman, MAATIR DURGA: TAADER CHOKHE MAAYER DEKHA encompassing the marginalized communities namely that of the Sex Workers and the Transgender communities from two organisations namely DURBAAR and SAMABHABONA respectively, the former located in the Northern region of the city while the latter in the Southern part. This is our 2nd year with the initiative and every year we pledge to make this more exuberant.
The Project takes place in two parts: The First part is held on on the auspicious day of Choturthi which is the day of the Judgement wherein representatives from Durbaar and Samabhabona accompanied by few members of the 2 Rotaract clubs visit several Puja Pandals for the guest judges to have a look at them each in order to discern their most favourite.
The Second part is held on the ceremonious day of Panchami which is the day of the Parikrama wherein invited members from Samabhabona and Durbaar along with some members of the 2 Rotaract clubs visit all the winning pandals to distribute the awards after the Judgement Day.
This year, Maatir Durga by Rotaract club of Calcutta Universe and Laketown Conquerers are grateful to have procured support from Inkzoid Foundation as our powered by associate and promotional partner. The famous vegetarian restaurant Urban Masala has offered to be our food partner for Panchami. 91.9 Friends FM and Bengal Scoop have lent their partnership as radio and coverage partners respectively. Our gift partner is Twirl with its pack of goodies for the guests and Promoz is our award partner along with that Lights Camera Action Film Making Academy is our associate sponsor.
The spirit of Durga Pujo with the marginalized communities had been unforgettable and irreplaceable and that the Club would want to keep tasting every single year. The Club cannot wait to get back to them, hold their hands and bring them back into sharing the joy of looking at the divinity's eyes together next year.

 Ashche bochor abar hobe!