 Pinocchio is everywhere! From Disney’s live action remake of its classic 1940 animated film to Guillermo Del Toro’s darker stop motion taken on the wooden boy and now ‘Lies of P’ mixing the beloved childhood classic with the dark gothic blood laced world of Bloodborne. 
A twisted take on the tale of Pinocchio, ‘Lies of P’ is another in the long line of Souls like action RPG’s coming out in the past few years alongside the likes of ‘Mortal Shell’, ‘Thymesia’ and ‘Steelrising’ which essentially mixes the challenging combat and atmosphere of Bloodborne with the tale of Pinocchio in a highly imaginative take on the classic fable.
Recently, IGN has shared yet another video of the game, showcasing a total 38 and a half minutes of brand new gameplay footage from its Gamescom 2022 demo. Players can combine weapons in a multitude of ways to create something new altogether. Thus, you can research to find the best combinations and make something truly special. Additionally, players can change parts of their bodies to gain new skills. Not only that, but these skills can provide several other unique and useful features.
Lies of P is a Souls-like game that is set in a cruel, dark Belle Époque world, and is inspired by the familiar story of Pinocchio. Players will wake up at an abandoned train station in Krat, a city overwhelmed by madness and bloodlust. Naturally, players will fight through everything in their path to find Geppetto. Featuring fast and fluid combat, the game also has strong world building that is filled with tension, suspense and a gripping story.
Given the story of Pinocchio and how lying plays a big role in the fable, the lies of a player will determine the ability to progress through the game’s interconnected procedural quests. Depending on how you lie, your choices will affect the overall outcome of Lies of P‘s story. While there’s currently no exact release date as of yet, Lies of P is due out for PlayStation 5, PlayStation 4, Xbox Series, Xbox One and PC via Steam.