Dera Sacha Sauda sect head Gurmeet Ram Rahim Singh was released on furlough just before the voting in Punjab on February 20.

It was supposed to be a tactical move on the part of the BJP government in Haryana. 

The mandate was clear. He had to issue an edict to support candidates of certain parties. Though the deras do not openly extend support to any political party, messages are silently conveyed to the followers to support certain candidates or parties. All this is done two nights before the polling. 

It happened this time too. A message was conveyed to the followers to vote for BJP and Akali Dal candidates. 

But there were few exceptions. The deras had extended support to some other candidates such as Charanjit Singh Channi and some ministers in his government. 

The deras are said to have a significant political clout in Punjab and Haryana. Top leaders of all political parties make a beeline to these deras to seek support in the elections.

Apart from Dera Sacha Sauda, there are five other major deras with the potential to influence electoral patterns in the state. These are Radha Soami Satsang Beas, Nurmahal Dera, Sant Nirankari Mission, Namdhari sect and Dera Sachkhand Ballan.

Radha Soami Satsang Beas is known to influence at least 19 assembly segments in Punjab while the Dera Sacha Sauda has significant clout over the Scheduled Castes. Dalits account for 32% of Punjab's three crore plus population, the highest in the country. 

However, the edicts didn't work this time as both the BJP and the Akali Dal were decimated by a rampaging Aam Aadmi Party (AAP). 

Similarly, Channi and 80% of his cabinet suffered a humiliating defeat. Channi lost from both Chamkaur Sahib and Bhadaur. 

Prime Minister Narendra Modi had also met Baba Gurinder Singh Dhillon, head of the Radha Soami Satsang Beas, another politically influential dera.

But even that didn't help. The BJP could manage only two seats while the Akali Dal bagged just four. 

It seems the political clout of these deras is diminishing and the voters have become politically savy to elect their candidates.