MEDITATION For Footballers...
As a footballer, mental clarity is necessary. Your mind can be racing and thinking a lot during matches. 
After bad performances or even before games while being nervous or anxious. it is important to clear the mind by praying to God first and then meditating to drag away bad thoughts.
PRAYING TO THE SUPER ENERGY - 
Praying to the God or you can say praying to the super energy, Even if you don't believe that god exist you still have to believe that there is some energy which is controlling the whole world.
Before games think about your worries and anxieties, As well as speak about your goals, what you want and what you need. Be faithful and the super energy will supply you with the tools to play with your absolute
MEDITATION EXERCISE - 
Do meditation before matches. The goal of this is to clear your mind from anxiety distractions and negative thoughts. This can also be used to achieve Ultra focus. 
Lay down and inhale through your stomach all the way in, attempt a second force full inhale and slowly exhale, Repeat this 10 times and then fully exhale and hold your breath for some minutes. Repeat 2 times. 
My coach told me this exercise when i use to get nervous before matches. Football is a sport which is played by the brain and the legs are only the tools. 
BENEFITS OF MEDITATION - 
The force-full inhales do eliminates anxiety. This is because when a the human body is anxious it needs oxygen. 
This will expand your diaphram intake and the one minute breath hold places heavy focus on your body and breathing combination of this is great before matches for a better performance and mental clarity.
MENTAL CLARITY -  
We often are constantly occupied and rarely set time to just live in the moment. 
Sit outside ground and let your mind think and roam without distractions for some minutes (roughly 10 minutes). 
This will reset your dopamine (Brain Chemical) levels in the brain and give you mental clarity for your day and match preparations
Thankyou ⚽