…shortsighted and unempathetic. 

Alex Ovechkin was recently asked about his stance on Putin by the Washington Post and was criticized for his response. 

https://www.washingtonpost.com/sports/2022/05/17/alex-ovechkin-putin-ukraine/ 

Early on in February when asked about Putin Ovechkin said, “Please, no more war. It doesn’t matter who’s in a war — Russia, Ukraine, different countries.” 

He was asked again on Sunday, two days after his Washington Capitals were eliminated from the Stanley Cup playoffs and he said, “He is my president.” 

This is what he has said all along. His wife and children are living in Russia and deeply embedded in Russian society. How in the world could he say anything else? 

To ask him to take a stronger stance against Putin would be putting his life and his family’s life in peril. It’s very convenient for us to say what he should do sitting comfortably in our homes. Let’s please consider the ramifications of such criticism and demands on people. Ovechkin may very well end up taking a harder stance against Russia but he would be foolish to do so before he gets his family out of the country. If he does he will need be prepared to never return and live a life of fear. 

This war has been like no other in many ways. It has caused governments to impose sanctions never before seen and companies to show there support by leaving Russia or boycotting Russian businesses etc. to peacefully change the outcome of the war without risking lives. McDonald’s just announced that they are completely pulling out of Russia. Totally unprecedented.

In this new type of “warfare,” however, let us not forget to put ourselves in the shoes of those who have very personal ramifications to their decisions to denounce the war. Most everyone is against war and specifically this war but many of us have no idea what it is like to live under an autocratic regime let alone one waging a war. 

For reference please look into the life of Enes Kanter who speaks out against the regime in Turkey. https://en.m.wikipedia.org/wiki/Enes_Kanter_Freedom.