Football is no doubt one of the most followed and loved sports in the entire world. People from several different parts of the world keep their eyes on the various football leagues and even the FIFA World Cup year after year. The sheer affection and eagerness towards the sport makes people from non footballing nations follow the sport and it's major events too. 
Football has provided several unforgettable memories to millions of fans from all across the globe. Certainly every bit of those memories is etched in the minds of fans via the commentary at that particular instant of the game. 
Several such excuisite lines spoken and comments made by the commentators on numerous magical moments on the football pitch become a piece of memory which help the football fans hold on to that moment for long years thereon. 
The footballing world has so far been able to witness several legendary commentators fill the hearts of football fans with the extreme delight towards the game till date by the use of soothing words. It's time for us to have a look at the top 10 famous commentators in the history of football.
10) Ian Darke
Ian Darke is possibly one of the most well known person with the microphone during the English footballing events. Along with Alan Parry, Rob Hawthorne and Martin Tyler, Darke formed a group famously known as the "Big four" in the sky sports network. Darke has covered several major football tournaments like the FIFA World Cup and others. He has been associated with BBC radio and Sky sports in the past. Presently he covers majority of Premier League matches.
9) Jon Champion
Jon Champion is another legendary operator of the microphone in the history of football. The commentator being born in England has a wide range of experience after having spent time with the BBC sport, ITV sport Setalanta and ESPN. Champion has commented during several significant football tournaments including the 2006 and 2018 World Cup. His voice has also been used in several editions of the Pro evolution Soccer.