By Shreya Negi

Multiple factors such as inflation, the Russia-Ukraine crisis, Indonesia’s palm oil ban, and more have hit the FMCG industry hard. This can have a sizable impact on the gross margins and also the sales volume of leading companies, and with this some are also planning to curtail their ad spends in the coming festive season by up to 40%.

According to sources, “An FMCG giant may witness a 50-70% reduction in the ad spends in product lines of cosmetics and skincare manufactured in India, in addition to the biscuits segment. However, on an average, we may witness a 30-40% reduction in the ad-spends of soaps, noodles, and chips.”

Commenting on whether this is going to be a short-term or a long-term phenomenon, the source said, “Since all FMCG players run on a rolling-inventory for their manufacture-cycle which runs for three-four months, this lag-effect on the depleted ad spends are entirely inflation-driven and it is difficult to predict for how long they will last.”

Over 25% of India’s total adex comes from the FMCG category.

Even Rohit Ohri, Chairman and CEO of FCB Group India, had recently told BestMediaInfo.com that the challenge of inflation isn’t over, and a greater challenge is looming large over the industry in terms of deciding whether or not to cut their ad-spends in the coming festive season.

However, the responses from other industry experts from Parle and Amul showed a staggered-yet-positive ballgame for FMCG advertising in the coming financial quarters.

According to Mayank Shah, Senior Category Head, Parle Products, “As the world is adapting to the new-normal post-pandemic, FMCG brands are eyeing for touching and positively crossing the pre-Covid levels in terms of their sales volume. As a result, the advertising spends which might have been comparatively lower than the planned media-expenditure in the first quarter, will now reach its predetermined level.”

Read the full story here:- https://bestmediainfo.com/2022/07/fmcg-ad-spend-may-remain-subdued-this-festive-season-as-inflation-hits-bottomline-hard