Banana Cinnamon Toasties

Serves: 1

Ingredients

2 slices of brown or white bread1 ripe banana2 tsp butterPinch dalchini or cinnamon powderPinch black pepper powder, optionalPinch salt, optionalButter for frying

Method

Slice the banana.Spread butter on both bread slices.
Arrange a layer of banana slices on one of the buttered side.
Sprinkle the salt, cinnamon, pepper.
Cover with the second buttered slice.Melt a little butter in a frying pan over low-medium heat and toast the sandwich.


Easy Tomato Olive Focaccia Bread

Serves: 4

Ingredients

1½ cups warm water (not too warm)2 tsp yeast2 tsp honey4 cups maida or all-purpose flour + 2 tbsp for dusting1½ tsp salt1 tbsp minced garlic1 tbsp sliced garlic, optional2+2 tbsp extra virgin olive oil1 medium tomato, sliced1 tbsp chopped spring onions greens1 tbsp sliced black olivesFresh herbs, like rosemary or thyme or parsley or basil, for garnish before baking, optionalExtra virgin olive oil for greasing the dough and the baking tray

Method

In a large mixing bowl, add the warm water, honey, yeast and mix well.
Cover and rest for 10 minutes or until frothy.
Stir in the flour, minced garlic, 2 tbsp of the olive oil, salt.
Gently mix.Transfer the dough on to a flat surface and knead until smooth and elastic about 10 minutes.
Roll the dough into a round ball and coat with a little olive oil.
Cover.
Let it rise in a warm place for an hour or until double in size.Take out the risen dough from the bowl and press it into a lightly-oiled 9 x 13 inch baking sheet pan until it touches the edges.
Cover with a damp cloth and rest until the dough becomes puffy, about 40-60 minutes.Preheat oven to 450°F or 200°C.
Drizzle a tbsp olive oil on the dough.
Using your fingers, poke holes all over the dough.
Top the dough with the tomato slices, olives, spring onion greens and the sliced garlic.
Sprinkle sparingly with a little fresh rosemary or any other fresh herb on hand.
Drizzle the remaining 1 tbsp of olive oil all over.
Bake until the focaccia is golden brown, about 20 minutes.
Cool on a rack.
Cut into pieces and serve warm