The Forward Policy and 
‘Operation ONKAR’continues...
Another factor which affected China’s decision for war with India 
was a perceived need to stop a Soviet-US-India encirclement and 
isolation of China. India’s relations with the Soviet Union and United 
States were both strong at this time, but the Soviets were preoccupied 
by the Cuban Missile Crisis and would not interfere with the SinoIndian War. P.B. Sinha and A.A. Athale suggest that China timed the war exactly in parallel with American actions so as to avoid any chance of American or Soviet involvement. American buildup of forces around 
Cuba occurred on the same day as the first major clash at Dhola while 
China’s buildup between the 10th and 20th of October coincided 
exactly with the United States establishment of a blockade against Cuba 
which began on the 20th of October.
The Chinese leadership believed that their restraint on the issue was 
being perceived by India as weakness, leading to continued
provocations, and that a major counterblow was needed to stop 
perceived Indian aggression. Chinese national pride, and their strong 
perceived need to avoid ‘loss of face’ were two intangibles not properly 
assessed by India.
In May 1962 an Assam Rifles column under Capt. Mahabir Prasad 
of 1st Sikhs was sent westwards across the Nyamjang Chu and over the 
Hathung La-Karpola Ridge, to establish a post on the India-BhutanTibet (China) tri-junction. The post was set up on 4th June, 1962, as close as possible to the tri-junction, located below Dhola, at a summer grazing ground named Tse Dong, on the south bank of the Namka 
Chu. [The Namka Chu is a 24 km long mountain rivulet flowing 
eastwards from the India-Bhutan-Tibet tri-junction area, running
immediately south of the Thagla Ridge to join the Nyamjang Chu (river) 
near Khinzemane.] The post later came to be referred to as the Dhola 
Post. Chinese histories of the 1962 Sino-Indian border war cite this 
incident as the start of the war, which they show as beginning in June 
1962.
To be continued...