The Dilemma of Indian Sports is that some games even today remain on the back foot of the sports arena .One of such offbeat sports is Luge (meaning “sledge”).

Story of Indian Luger (“Shiva Keshavan'') Born to an Indian father (Sudhakaran) and Italian mother (Rosalba) who met in Manali while backpacking in the Himalyas in 1970s.He was born and brought  up in Vashisht, a village close to Manali, which is a winter sports destination. His parents run an Italian restaurant in Himachal Pradesh. He did his schooling from The Lawrence school,Sanawar.

His journey towards the winter sports was a natural choice.Keshavan had too many challenges before entering into the sports arena.

Despite of no luge track, Shiva  use to luge, hitting the roads on a modified sled with wheels instead of blades , swerving in and out of traffic, avoiding livestock, meandering around cones placed on the road, racing past traffic, parked cars on either side and under truck parked across the road for added thrills.

When not training, much of Keshavan’s time went towards finding sponsors to support his training and touring, with the Indian Olympic Association hardly forthcoming.

Funding for the sport was a tough challenge for Shiva. So he had to cut his training and opt for lesser quality equipment.

 The struggle of Luger and his firm will and determination made him move forward towards his aim .After many years of struggle he got the support of (“Duncan Kennedy” first American to win a Luge).

Shiva competed at the 1998, 2002, 2006, 2010, 2014, and 2018 Winter Olympic Games.

He was the youngest luger at the 1998 Winter Olympics and has been the Indian flag bearer at the opening ceremonies of winter Olympics, as well as the first Indian luger ever to compete.

 He has a Asian speed record of luging at a speed of 134.3 km/h (83.5mph) after beating the previous record of 131.9 km/h (82.0 mph) and had won a gold medal in the 2011 Asian Luge Cup in Japan

Shiva was also nominated for the Indian sports honour Arjuna Award and Parshuram Award in 2012.  

 “Shiva” a six-time Olympian and a speed maniac.