India abstained on a US-sponsored UN Security Council resolution that “deplores in the strongest terms” Russia’s “aggression” against Ukraine, with New Delhi saying dialogue is the only answer to settling differences and disputes and voicing “regret” that the path of diplomacy was given up.

The resolution did not pass since permanent member Russia, and the President of the Security Council for February used its veto. The resolution received 11 votes in favour and three abstentions, including by India, China and the UAE.

The UN Security Council on Friday voted on the draft resolution by the US and Albania and co-sponsored by several other nations including Australia, Estonia, Finland, Georgia, Germany, Italy, Liechtenstein, Lithuania, Luxembourg, New Zealand, Norway, Poland, Romania and the United Kingdom.

Russia, a permanent member of the 15-member powerful Security Council, used its veto power and the resolution failed, as expected, but Western nations said the resolution seeks to show Moscow’s isolation on the global stage for its invasion and actions against Ukraine.

All eyes were on how India will cast its vote on the resolution given that New Delhi has strong defence ties with Moscow.

Meanwhile, China's permanent representative to the UN, Zhang Jun said that the security of one country cannot come at the cost of undermining the security of other nations..., China abstained in the vote".

"We believe that the sovereignty and territorial integrity of all states should be respected and that the purposes and principles of the UN Charter should be upheld," said Zhang Jun.
"...Security of one country cannot come at the cost of undermining the security of other nations...China abstained in the vote...Ukraine should become a bridge between East and West, said China's permanent representative to the UN.

During the UNSC meeting on Ukraine, US Ambassador to the United Nations, Linda Thomas-Greenfield, said that "Russia's latest attack on our most fundamental principles is so bold, so brazen that it threatens our international system as we know it."
 
Source: https://www.reuters.com/world/russia-vetoes-un-security-action-ukraine-china-abstains-2022-02-25/
 
https://theprint.in/world/india-abstains-on-unsc-resolution-that-deplores-russian-aggression-against-ukraine/848607/

https://www.aninews.in/news/world/us/russia-vetoes-unsc-resolution-on-ukraine-as-india-china-uae-skip-voting20220226060159