
Babies health is a great concern for parents and here is a new research study related to it. 
The new research studies shows that greater number of babies who have low birth weight could be at risk for development difficulties. 
Previous studies have shown that infants those in the lowest 10 percent of birth weight, which involves premature babies, are at a risk of not getting into the development milestones and experiencing other developmental difficulties. 
The new study which is led by scientists at Coventry University in the United Kingdom  reported that the infants on the lowest 25 percent of birth weight could also face similar issues. 
The researchers examined a group of 600,000 children who is around 2 and 3 years of age above 12 year period. They were reported that those who were born with the lowest quartile for weight, they were more likely to have fine motor, gross motor and communication skills difficulties when compared to children who were born with higher weights. 
The birth marker can be "be used by healthcare workers (such as pediatricians, health visitors, and child health nurses) as an additional risk ‘flag’ for early childhood developmental concerns and to highlight to parents children who may need added monitoring and support to achieve their full developmental potential," as the study authors wrote. 
“This is not a surprising finding but does highlight the need for vigilance of a different subset of low birth weight babies, including those who are not at the lowest of weight but those just above that,” said Dr. Danelle Fisher, FAAP, a pediatrician and chair of pediatrics at Providence Saint John’s Health Center in California.
“Low birthweight can be caused by a number of reasons, especially with infections or chromosome abnormalities, but it can also be a sign of malnutrition of the mom or other maternal conditions,” she told Healthline.
“Poor prenatal nutrition, the expecting mother using alcohol, cigarettes or drugs, chronic conditions in the expecting mother, and the expecting mother having high blood pressure or being low weight are all contributing factors to low baby birth weight,” she told Healthline.
Sources - Healthline 