Well, that was fast. Less than two months after she first floated the place on the open market with a $25 million asking price, Reese Witherspoon has sold her Los Angeles estate, albeit for a discounted $21.5 million. But that’s still way more than the Oscar-winning actress and producer originally paid about two years ago, when she bought the gracious Brentwood mansion for just under $16 million. The Wall Street Journal first reported the pricey deal.

The house sits on 3.1 verdant acres deep in Mandeville Canyon, though it lies down a private lane off the main neighborhood drag. Even from that whisper-quiet lane, the house is totally invisible, set behind big driveway gates and a long, tree-shaded driveway. There’s also a separate service entrance and driveway — also gated — for vendors and staff.

Built in 1993, the rambling structure offers seven bedrooms and 10 bathrooms in more than 10,000 square feet, though there aren’t any shots of the bedrooms included in recent photos. Still, the listing assures us that all the bedrooms offer ensuite baths, including the two guest rooms on the main floor. Upstairs are four “family” bedrooms, plus a deluxe owner’s suite secluded in its own “owner’s wing,” and complete with dual baths and dressing rooms. Also on the premises are two powder rooms, both trimmed in rich slabs of quartzite.

Outside, the magical grounds include vast grassy lawns and mature oak, pine and sycamore trees. The lap pool is surrounded by a large concrete patio, ideal for entertaining, and there’s also a limestone bar area with seating for eight al fresco diners. In addition to the three-car attached garage, the motorcourt and wide main driveway can easily accommodate another dozen automobiles. Naturally, the entire estate is secured and controlled by a state-of-the-art Crestron smart-home system.

It remains unclear if Witherspoon and her family ever actually occupied the Brentwood property — if they did, it wasn’t for very long. The house sat vacant for months before renovations began, and the “Legally Blonde” star did a substantial amount of work to the home. 