An important cog in the backroom staff, Paddy has guided some very successful outfits across cricket, and believes the key to creating a positive atmosphere also involves avoiding over-analysis. “I think it (analyzing players after every match) is a very old school and naive approach. To go talk to a player after one bad game about what they did wrong, is no longer the way forward. The nature of the game is such that sometimes things don’t go your way even when you play really well, and vice versa. So, we don't go in and over analyze a bad over, or even a bad game.”

“Every game, we follow the same process within the team and look to focus on our preparation, our plans and our execution, which are the most important aspects for every team and every player.”

Giving insights on the kind of sessions he conducts within the group, Paddy said, “I have three different groupings that I talk to. So, during the start, I've done group sessions with all coaches and players together, where each of us will have a conversation and we walk away with personal game plans within the context of the whole squad.”

“Then I would sit with individual players and say: ‘Okay, so what are the areas you want to work on, where you need more communication and better understanding?’”

“Third is that sometimes I take it into sort of mini groups, where then I work, for instance, with the bowling or batting unit. So, to get a proper analysis of how we communicate and understand each other better, what questions have the players got for each other, etc,” expressed Paddy.

The South African also highlighted the importance of uniform messaging when dealing with the players. “Having a number of coaches with a team can sometimes dilute your messaging. However, that is where I come in. I can highlight and make sure that we are all delivering the same message to the players. Therefore, being familiar with what our philosophy is, and then aligning as a coaching unit is also important before we impart guidance to the players.”