It took more than a decade of protest before 3,000 farm families succeeded in getting a South Korean steel company to vacate productive farmland the Odisha government had acquired. Five years later, the area is again roiled by protest, conflict and police brutality, as the government hands over the same land to an Indian steel company. The compensation offered, on average, is equivalent to a year’s income from the betel vines—some nurtured for nearly two centuries—of this lush coastal land.

On 14 January 2022, two betel vineyards that the family of 57-year-old Shanti Das owned & tended for about 80 years were destroyed by govt workers after a violent clash between armed police and about 500 residents of a village called Dhinkia in this lush, coastal district. 

The two groves, together measuring less than half an acre of land, yielded the family of seven a monthly income of around Rs 70,000, or Rs 840,000 every year. 

For the loss of her betel groves to a proposed steel plant, the government of chief minister Naveen Patnaik will compensate Das with a “one-time settlement” of about Rs 700,000. 

Das, her husband and other family members worked all year round in the vineyards, employing labourers when needed. 

“The administration forcibly demolished my vines despite my protests,” Das told Article 14. “I was earning a sustainable income. My family and our labourers have all lost our livelihoods.”


“The administration forcibly demolished my vines despite my protests,” Das told Article 14. “I was earning a sustainable income. My family and our labourers have all lost our livelihoods.”

On 14 January, the lush, sandy land of Dhinkia turned into a battlefield as policemen and policewomen chased and baton-charged villagers trying to prevent the demolition of their vineyards. Over 40 villagers, half of them women and children, were injured. 

Read more- https://article-14.com/post/between-two-steel-projects-why-conflict-is-brewing-in-a-quiet-odisha-village-s-betel-groves-61f74330ed923