Our research study findings carried out in English National Print media: https://www.nationalheraldindia.com/india/during-pandemic-71-lost-their-jobs-of-which-34-were-women-59-borrowed-money-to-survive-says-new-survey 

The COVID-19 pandemic has presented the greatest test the world has faced since the World War II. It has triggered not only a health crisis, but also affected the livelihood of millions of daily wage earners, rural landless poor, migrant workers, tribal communities, etc. The second wave of the pandemic shifted from big cities to small towns and rural areas. It has affected rural areas on a much larger scale as compared to the first wave last year. 
Since only a very few studies have attempted to study the impact of the pandemic in rural India, Jesuit Collective under the aegis of Conference Development Office (CDO) initiated a research study titled ‘Impact of COVID-19 Pandemic in Rural India: A community based cross sectional study in 12 States’. Poor marginalised and tribal communities are the reference communities (sampling universe) for the study. The study has been carried out in the states of Karnataka, Andhra Pradesh, Maharashtra, Gujarat, Bihar, Jharkhand, Chhattisgarh, Kerala, Uttar Pradesh, Odisha, Telangana, and West Bengal. The study is making use of a semi-structured interview schedule to assess the socio-economic impact of COVID-19 among the reference communities. Data was collected using KoBoCollect App, developed for humanitarian use by a joint initiative of the United Nations Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs (UN OCHA), Harvard Humanitarian Initiative (HHI) and the International Rescue Committee (IRC). The study has employed quantitative and qualitative methods, though the predominant method would be Quantitative data. With a target sample size of 5600, we have received 5205 responses from the people and 1917 responses from different stakeholders including government officials, schoolteachers, and health professionals. News on Fact Sheet has been published in National Herald English Print.