My research includes the moral and legal aspects and policy implications of childhood vaccination. COVID-19’s effects on children has an impact on that research. And these effects appear to be changing, making the need for widespread COVID-19 vaccine uptake among children more urgent.Early in the pandemic, evidence suggested children generally avoided severe COVID-19 infections. That rosier picture is now fading. Emerging research signals that children’s susceptibility to SARS-CoV-2, the virus that causes COVID-19, has increased in “frequency and severity” over the course of the pandemic.One newly released study of British Columbia’s Lower Mainland chronicles the dramatic rise in infections among those under 19. This surge in childhood infection with the Omicron variant is consistent with estimates in other parts of Canada and beyond.Increased frequency of infections among children will necessarily yield a greater number of cases with severe outcomes, including hospitalizations and deaths. Children with co-morbidities are especially vulnerable to severe COVID-19 outcomes.Low vaccination uptake among minorsA multi-pronged approach to restrict transmission, including masking, is advised over any one single preventive measure. This is likely even more important with new variants on the horizon.Yet vaccination remains one of the best means to protect against severe outcomes when breakthrough infection occurs. Additionally, vaccination may decrease the likelihood of long COVID. The Ontario government recommends vaccination for those under 18.That’s why it’s alarming that vaccine uptake among minors of the primary series of two doses, particularly for those under 12, remains low.Compared to the provincial average of 90 per cent for those 12 and above, only 41 per cent of Ontario children aged five to 11 have completed their primary series. Uptake among those under five is almost non-existent, with just six per cent receiving their first doses in the two months since Health Canada approved a COVID-19 vaccine for this cohort. Numbers across the country are roughly similar.Read more: https://theconversation.com/adding-covid-19-to-designated-diseases-could-boost-vaccine-uptake-among-children-191235