Today is the day when the world of football will look forward to watching only one match which is the “El Classico.”

The meaning of the El Classico is “The Classic” and this name is reserved for the football matches between two Spanish teams which are Real Madrid and FC Barcelona. This match is considered the biggest football game in the world and still holds a world record for the highest viewed match on television.

So today, I will share some historic facts about ‘El Classico :-

1. Real Madrid and Barcelona are identified as political opposition where Real Madrid represents Spanish Nationalism and Barcelona represents Catalan Nationalism.

2. If I talk about the head-to-head results, Real Madrid is leading that race with 100 wins to
Barcelona’s 96 wins and both teams played 52 matches as a draw.

3. Real Madrid and Barcelona played their first game against each other on 13th May 1902 at Les Sorts Stadium and FC Barcelona won that match by 3-0.

4. In the 1950s both clubs wanted to sign the legend Alfredo di Stefano, but due to confusion from the club ‘River Plate’ (parent club of the player), Stefano ended up having a contract from both the teams but after that FIFA intervened and decided to share the player for alternative seasons but a few years later Stefano become a permanent player of Real Madrid.

5. Real Madrid and Barcelona both have Ultras (superfans groups) and the names of the groups are Ultra Sur and Boixos Nois respectively.

6. Lionel Messi scored the most goals (26) in El Classico for Barcelona and Di Stefano scored most goals (18) for Real Madrid in El Classico.

Since 1st March 2020, FC Barcelona didn’t win a single match against Real Madrid and Xavi (new manager of Barcelona) wants to register its first win against Real Madrid because he already lost one match against them and on the hand Real Madrid want to win El Classico to put one hand on La Liga trophy because they already have ten points lead against the second team on the table, Sevilla.