By Abhishek Kumar

Dr Brijesh Kumar Rai, a former professor at IIT Guwahati, shared a printout of a screenshot of a tweet with Alt News. He informed that IIT Guwahati’s Board of Governors (BoG) minutes report cited a tweet in his name that he has never made. Dr Rai also shared some other documents of the court with us, where the screenshot of the relevant tweet has been attached.

What is the matter?

On January 1, 2020, Dr Brijesh Kumar Rai, then Assistant Professor of IIT Guwahati, was given Major Penalty Compulsory Retirement on charges of misconduct. On January 2, 2020, he was given a notice to vacate the quarters of the institute.

Dr Rai had been working in the Department of Electronics and Electrical Engineering at IIT Guwahati since 2011. He has filed four PILs and more than 450 RTI applications, alleging corruption at IIT Guwahati before his compulsory retirement.

A screenshot of an alleged tweet by Dr Rai was attached to a document of the 106th Board of Governors (BOG) meeting held on April 22, 2021. It is available on the website of IIT Guwahati. According to the screenshot on page number 96 of this 125-page document, Dr Rai tagged several accounts including the Ministry of Education, and the Prime Minister’s Office, and called for a protest against the forced expulsion of students. In this purported tweet, he also talked about mobilizing shopowners across faculty gates.  It also says that the demonstration will be against the BJP, PM Modi, Himanta Biswa Sharma, and IIT Guwahati and it will be led by Vikrant and Himanchal.

Vikrant and Himanchal are students of IIT Guwahati. They went on a hunger strike from January 4 to 7, 2020, in protest against the compulsory retirement of Dr Rai. According to reports, in March 2021, Vikrant faced suspension from the academic session by IIT Guwahati. Following this, he was terminated from the institute. In the case of Himanchal, he was made to sign a six-point undertaking by IIT Guwahati to continue his research. The undertaking states that he will not participate in any future protest or agitation.

Read the full story here:- https://www.altnews.in/iit-guwahati-board-of-governers-report-fake-tweet-of-ex-professor-dr-brijesh-rai/?utm_source=website&utm_medium=social-media&utm_campaign=newpost