Hi single people ! I know it is February again and the Valentine's day  hype has already started and somewhere we are all hiding from couples who will flaunt their relationship and fill your feed with their pictures. You know what, it's actually fine.There's no need to go into hibernation this week ! Face the facts.

It is not shameful or demeaning if you don't have a Valentine this year ALSO.It is alright if you give yourself time and know yourself better before starting a relationship.It is completely justified if you still think about your ex this Valentine's.Love is not something which sprouts and blossoms in only one day.It needs time, growth, development and care.Don't see couples on Valentine's as a repulsive scene.Admire and respect them for making it through together.They also must have had their fair share of ups and downs, but they have risen above all odds and stuck together. 

Maybe it's not your time this year TOO,but this is not the last Valentine's.There are many more 14th of February's to come,many more opportunities to spend it with your loved one.Being in a relationship doesn't need any show off or exhibition.Both of them are their world to each other and they find this day to be the means of displaying it mutually.You will also find your beloved someday but it is just not right now.You're taking your time to find your better half and there's nothing compulsive about getting even a "one-day date" with someone.You're on a slower ride but you're still on the road.You have nothing to prove to anyone. You do not have to upload pictures on your socials with someone to keep up to the spirit of Valentine's.

Valentine's Day celebrates love and warmth, not its exhibition to a huge mass.I am also spending any other day like you, under the blanket scrolling through my feed, double tapping the pictures of my friends. But believe me, I am happy for them,that they are enjoying their time with their loved ones.Yes, I do tease them, but it's nothing to interfere with their enjoyment. Maybe it's their day,but "apna time aayega."