Arrival depicts humanity's response to a profound paradigm shift. The hepta-pod arrival is an unprecedented event, and the human efforts to apply understood frameworks on the situation are predictably obtuse. The resulting confusion is exemplified visually when the humans enter the ship and try to throw a glow stick in a new, gnarlier form of gravity. The film causes viewers to share the characters' disorientation by manipulating traditional aesthetics and structures of film. The hepta-pod viewing area is shaped like a Samsung Galaxy Note screen, or really any screen, a visual motif that serves to remind us of the way we typically consume media. We expect movies that conform to certain architectures, such as a linear chronology and straightforward cinematography.
And if it's a big blockbuster, we also expect Jeremy Renner to show up at some point to grab his check. Arrival also gives us something different -- upside down shots, confusing perspectives, and a timeline that eschews a beginning and an end. This philosophy is embodied in the design of the hepta-pod enclosure, which was inspired by John Turrell's art installation "Breathing Light”.
By eliminating depth perception, the work dislodges the viewer's preconceptions about his surroundings. Thus, just as the scientists must forego their usual arsenal of data points. The film suggests that communication is not only about translation, but also perspective. Initially, the scientists try to understand the literal meaning of the hepta-pod. However, these interpretations do more harm than good. It's only when Louise becomes fluent in the hepta-pod language in about a week and begins to experience time from the hepta-pod point of view that she can grasp their purpose. Similarly, as the audience's preconceptions dissolve, we realize Louise's flashbacks were actually flash forwards. The circular hepta-pod language reflects their view of time, without a beginning or an end, just 100% all-natural. Likewise, Louise names her daughter Hannah, which is a palindrome. It can be read in either direction - from end to beginning, or future to present.