An influential opposition group in Haiti has urged the United States to withdraw its support to Prime Minister Ariel Henry and his government that has unleashed a rule of chaos in the island nation. Henry, who is believed to have links with those who assassinated President Jovenel Moise, has delayed elections time and again. The failure to hold elections, makes the government unconstitutional and illegitimate, according to this group called Montana Accord.  

The group calls itself Montana Accord after Hotel Montana in the Haitian capital Port-au-Prince where they have been meeting for nearly a year on a common political platform. They include civic leaders, former politicians, journalists, economists and entrepreneurs.

Ever since President Moise was killed, Haiti has sunk into chaos and violence, as rival criminal gangs fight to gain control of the country in the face of a struggling police force. The gangs carry out kidnappings in broad daylight and run amok entire neighbourhoods. On October 16, American missionaries were kidnapped while they were travelling to the airport. The year 2021 saw 628 kidnappings in all. Around 165 gangs operate at Port-au-Prince with tacit support of politicians, and many of the groups are better armed than the police force.  

According to the opposition group, Henry was most likely involved in Moise’s assassination as there is evidence that he was in touch with the chief suspect before and after the killing. Henry denied the allegations and fired the prosecutor and justice minister who wanted him to be formally charged.
  
The Montana Accord slammed the US government for supporting such a corrupt regime headed by a shady Prime Minister.  They called for a transitional government under the leadership of Fritz Alphonse Jean, who can restore law and order in the country, and then hold a free and fair election. 

READ MORE: 

https://www.reuters.com/world/americas/leader-haitian-advocacy-group-urges-two-year-transition-government-2022-02-04/

https://www.nytimes.com/2022/02/06/world/americas/haiti-opposition-group-montana-accord.html   

https://www.reuters.com/world/americas/leader-haitian-advocacy-group-urges-two-year-transition-government-2022-02-04/