The UN General Assembly voted to suspend Russia from the UN Human Rights Council on Thursday, the latest in a series of resolutions denouncing the Ukraine invasion.

The move comes after Ukraine and its partners accused Russia of committing war crimes in Ukraine.

Of the 193 members in the assembly, 93 voted in favour and 24 voted against. Some 58 members abstained, giving the vote the two-thirds majority needed to pass.

In comparison to previous votes condemning Russia's invasion, a greater number of Russia-friendly countries such as China voted against rather than abstaining. Russia had been serving a three-year term on the council — the body charged with protecting human rights.

The resolution adopted by the 193-member General Assembly draft expresses "grave concern at the ongoing human rights and humanitarian crisis in Ukraine," particularly at reports of rights abuses by Russia.

Russia had warned countries that a yes vote or abstention will be viewed as an "unfriendly gesture" with consequences for bilateral ties.

Geneva-based council cannot make legally binding decisions. Its decisions send important political messages, however, and it can authorize investigations.

The United States ambassador to the United Nations made a case for seeking the suspension of Russia from the Human Rights Council in front of the UN Security Council on Tuesday, something she and other UN member states have been pushing.

"Russia should not have a position of authority in a body whose purpose -- whose very purpose -- is to promote respect for human rights. Not only is it the height of hypocrisy -- it is dangerous," Ambassador Linda Thomas-Greenfield said.

The Russian representative said the vote on suspending Russia from the Human Rights Council "is an attempt by the United States to maintain its dominant position and total control to continue its attempt at human rights colonialism in international relations.

Sources: https://www.reuters.com/world/un-vote-suspending-russia-human-rights-council-over-ukraine-2022-04-07/ 

https://m.dw.com/en/un-votes-to-suspend-russia-from-its-human-rights-council-despite-opposition/a-61392741 

https://www.cnn.com/2022/04/07/politics/un-russia-human-rights/index.html