by Sakib Lone

The Karnataka Lokayukta has been reduced to a toothless body. Divested of most of its powers, the office of the Lokayukta, which once took pride in its fight against corruption, has today become a mute spectator.

Former Karnataka Lokayukta Justice Santosh Hegde had recently rued in an interview with The Probe that the Lokayukta has been stripped of its powers, and the time has come to revive the Lokayukta in the state of Karnataka.

( Link https://youtu.be/lvUpmWvyVbo)

For the last many months now, Karnataka Lokayukta has been functioning without a chief. Many people who have approached the Lokayukta office with complaints allege that the anti-corruption watchdog has been slow in its responses as the organisation has been functioning without a head.

The BJP government had recently issued an order directing the Director General and Inspector General of Police (DG & IGP) to withdraw all the sanctioned SP and DySPs attached to the Lokayukta office. The decision could not have come at a worse time for the Lokayukta as the government took the decision at a time when the state government was in the midst of numerous corruption allegations.


“We were instrumental in filing a complaint against former Lokayukta Bhaskar Rao and his son before the Upalokayukta Subhash B Adi. We were able to get the investigation initiated, which led to the ouster of Bhaskar Rao. Since then, we have been fighting against many corruption cases in Karnataka. The Lokayukta Act of 1984 mainly addresses the administrative actions against government officials, whether it is a dereliction of duty or misuse of power. Lokayukta worked in the interest of the common man. The Karnataka Lokayukta Act of 1984 gave the provision to the citizens to file a complaint against the government officers who are indulging in maladministration. But unfortunately, the Lokayukta does not exist anymore, and it has been divested of all its powers,” said Adarsh Iyer, Co-President of the Janadhikara Sangharsha Parishad.

Read the full story here:- https://theprobe.in/why-has-karnataka-lokayukta-been-reduced-to-a-toothless-body/