The Indian men's badminton team created history as they squashed the challenge from Denmark in a 3-2 thriller to book their place in the finals of the Thomas Cup (popularly called as Men's Badminton World Cup) for the first time in 73 years of the World Team Championships' existence.

Led by Satwik-Chirag, Kidambi Srikanth and H.S. Prannoy, the Indian team created history as they have now guaranteed a shot at the gold medal at the Thomas Cup 2022.

Indian team, which never went past the semifinals after 1979, showed tremendous fighting spirit as it came from a match down to outwit the 2016 champions.

While world championships silver medallist Kidambi Srikanth and world number 8 doubles pair of Satwiksairaj Rankireddy and Chirag Shetty kept India in the hunt, it was once again left to Prannoy to take the team home when the tie was locked 2-2. 

Up against world number 13 Rasmus Gemke, Prannoy suffered an ankle injury after slipping on the frontcourt while going for a return but the Indian continued after taking a medical timeout.

He looked in pain and his on-court movement also looked restricted but despite all odds, he produced a sensational performance to come up Trump 13-21, 21-9, 21-12 to etch India's name in the history books.

India will now take on 14-time champion Indonesia, the most successful team in the history of the championship!

The Indian team on the sidelines, dancing before match point and rushing onto the court after with a flag, underlined the significance of this win which has now brought a moment of joy for the entire nation as the country continues to increase its footprint in the global sporting arena.

But, can a talented, energetic Indian side beat the formidable Indonesian team in the Final to clinch the elusive gold?

Well, We'll have to wait till 15th May for that!

(Catch the Thomas Cup 2022 Final action and Live on 15th May at 11:30 AM IST on Voot & Sports18)

Source: 
https://sportstar.thehindu.com/badminton/india-beats-denmark-reaches-thomas-cup-final-first-time-ever/article38490794.ece 

https://thebridge.in/badminton/india-storm-first-thomas-cup-final-beat-dominant-denmark-31485