With nine Broadway musicals currently playing on Australian stages – and a further three set to open or reopen in coming months – audiences could be forgiven for thinking “what pandemic?”

Most of the productions originated overseas in the past decade and are having their first staging for Australian audiences.

Two productions are even part of the 2022 Broadway season and made their Australian debuts before the outcome of the annual Tony Awards.

SIX: The Musical is a 75-minute, pop-fuelled concert that remixes and retells the stories of the six wives of Henry VIII. Girl from the North Country superimposes the music of Bob Dylan onto a fictional story of Depression-era America.
Alongside four other new productions, SIX and Girl from the North Country will vie for the title of Best Musical at the Tony Award ceremony to be held this Sunday night at Radio City Music Hall in New York.
Girl From The North Country started touring Australia in January, and is currently playing in Melbourne. Daniel Boud
Broadway’s night of nights
Broadway musicals frequently cite Tonys success in their marketing campaigns. A haul of nominations for new productions can help create awareness with Australian audiences.

But with COVID-19 disrupting the Broadway calendar and shifting award eligibility dates, some producers haven’t waited for validation at the Tonys.

SIX is already playing across the world and its 2018 pre-Broadway cast album has amassed over 100 million streams. Girl from the North Country has a firm closing date on Broadway after squeezing in a week-long extension, and will launch a US tour in 2023.

So what does a possible win in the top category mean for either Australian production?
Louise Withers, producer of SIX in Australia, tells me while a Tony win might provide new fodder for their marketing campaign, there’s no guarantee of increased profitability.
“We need local audiences to fall in love with shows, and to encourage others to see them, in order to hopefully be financially successful,” she says.

Read more - https://theconversation.com/with-9-broadway-musicals-currently-on-australian-stages-musical-theatre-is-thriving-again-184157