Uttam Kumar was Bengali cinema's biggest star ever, but he was also one of its best actors. Today, July 24, is still commemorated in every Bengali home, as the death anniversary of their superhero. Here's why.

July 24, 1980. Calcutta. Cries of “Guru tumi phire esho! (Guru, please come back!)” and “Uttam Kumar amar rahey!” rent the air. Thousands of people beat the heat and had come out on the streets to see off their beloved 'Mahanayak', their Guru. Calcutta hadn’t seen this kind of crowd spill over on the streets since the passing of Rabindranath Tagore, 39 years prior.

It’s near impossible to explain the phenomenon of Uttam Kumar to those who haven’t grown up experiencing it in some form. Only a handful of people in the entire subcontinent have inspired that kind of frenzy in a people. What Amitabh Bachchan is for Bollywood, Uttam was for Bengali cinema.

The parts he did were devoid of machismo; there were no slow-mo “entry scenes”, no action sequences, no foot-tapping dance numbers, and in the opening credits, his name appeared along with other cast members. Yet, the audience waited with bated breath for him to arrive on screen. The moment they saw his face, the crowd burst into thunderous applause.

It was a routine occurrence for even his average films to be declared houseful at the advance booking stage. Several irredeemable films became hits just because they starred Uttam. Setting aside his stardom, nobody came close to the diversity of roles he played.

Throughout his long and chequered career Uttam Kumar worked with various directors. But on the two films he did with Satyajit Ray, 'Nayak' (1966) and 'Chiriyakhana' (1967), he was granted free rein. Ray didn’t interfere as long as he was happy with the outcome. Of these two films, Ray modelled the hero’s character in the first film after Uttam himself. But it was 'Chiriyakhana' that won Uttam Kumar the first National Award for Best Actor. Not HIS first, but the first EVER. When  National Award for Best Actor was instituted in 1968, Uttam Kumar became the first recipient. He won it for both 'Chiriyakhana' as well as 'Anthony Firingee' (1967).