Six months ago, it was easy for many Americans to think COVID-19 was on the defensive. Vaccinations were ticking up as case numbers ticked down. Summer sunshine made hanging out outside actually enjoyable, after a cooped-up winter of socializing with just our pods. Maybe, just maybe, Zoom fatigue would soon be a thing of the past.

Today, that optimism seems miles away. Hospitalizations are hitting new highs. Concerns about school safety amid climbing case counts have working parents and teachers on edge.

If you’re not exactly feeling hopeful about the year ahead, you’re not alone. Here are five of our favorite stories spotlighting resilience, healing, and yes, hope, to help you face 2022.

1. ‘Work with hope’

Face it, poet and classics scholar Rachel Hadas writes: “We’re in a prolonged period of maddeningly, scarily bad news.”

But if you think that makes our society unique, think again. For as long as humans have been writing, they’ve been facing crises, learning to adapt – more than we give our species credit for – and keeping hope afloat. And readers today can draw strength from yesterday’s literature.

Whether it’s Homer’s Greek epic “The Iliad” or American poet Emily Dickinson, writing about resilience often shares key themes, Hadas says: learning to balance the present and the future, the big-picture horizon and the joy of small things along the way. Quoting the modern Greek poet George Seferis, she writes of the need to “put to sea again with our broken oars.”

2. Before healing, remembering

The pandemic has robbed people not only of joy, but also of ways to process grief. As many people grasp “every opportunity to reconnect” and find new normals, others are still mourning lost loved ones, especially if COVID-19 restrictions prevented the kinds of healing and commemoration families once took for granted.

Read full story at The Conversation: https://theconversation.com/tackling-2022-with-hope-5-essential-reads-174755

Image Credits: https://www.gettyimages.com/detail/news-photo/yellow-crocus-flowers-peak-through-the-snow-covered-ground-news-photo/1040365222?adppopup=true