Erik Ten Hag 


The Ajax manager is currently the favourite for the position as per reports. Since 2018, Ten Hag has helped Ajax win multiple Eredivisie titles. He has also helped the Dutch club reach a Champions League semi-finals.


Erik Ten Hag's biggest negative would be that he is yet to manage a club in Europe's top five leagues. To add to this, Ajax have been ordinary in the Champions League apart from their run in the 2018/19 season.





Mauricio Pochettino 

Mauricio Pochettino is another name that has been doing the rounds for quite some time. The Argentine has Premier League experience with the Spurs. To add to this, he is currently managing a European giant in Paris Saint-Germain! 

But the Argentine manager's biggest problem has been that he has failed to win trophies. Even with the "six-star" PSG team, Pochettino has managed to lose out on the Coupe De France, French Super Cup, and the Champions League this season. The lack of trophy is reportedly the Man United board's biggest worry! 






Julen Lopetegui

The 55-year-old Spaniard is currently managing Sevilla. Under his leadership, Sevilla are second in LaLiga. Lopetegui also guided them to the Europa League title in 2020. The manager also did a terrific job with the Spanish national team. 

The only negative of Julen Lopetegui would be his tenure at Real Madrid. The manager was tasked to lead Los Blancos after the departure of Cristiano Ronaldo and Zinedine Zidane in 2018. But Lopetegui failed and was sacked in a matter of months.




Luis Enrique


The unlikeliest option on this list would be Luis Enrique. The 51-year-old is currently the manager of the Spanish national team. He is doing a commendable job and hence we don't see him leaving the position until after the 2022 FIFA World Cup at the very least. 

The only drawback for Enrique would be the fact that he has not managed a club since he left Barcelona in May 2017. Hence it has to be seen if he could cope with the pressures of weekly managerial duties again. 