Slum Soccer is an organisation which uses football - the beautiful game which is unique yet a perfect vehicle that transcends race, religion, language and gender to bring about a change in the lives of street dwellers.Most of what we know about soccer begins and ends with the adrenaline rush, the vigor and the matchless entertainment. But there could be and there is more, much more. When the soccer ball gets rolling on field, kicked by the players who are slum dwellers, it takes a whole new meaning. It’s about shrugging off the limitations of poverty; creating and living a priceless new identity. And Slum Soccer, a Nagpur-based NGO, has been proving it time and again.12 years ago, when Vijay Barse, a retired sports teacher, saw a small bucket being kicked and passed, splashing muddy rainwater all around the diminutive playgrounds of a shanty town, it was a moment of clairvoyance. Vijay saw through the simple joy and fun; he saw a great tool of emancipation in soccer and realized that a sport transforms you when you are on the field. ‘Jhoparrpatti’ football, as it began to be called then, roped in youngsters coming from backgrounds of drug abuse, anti-social activities, conflicts and personal struggles. They all got together for a game of soccer, only to realize that their lives were slowly changing.
For Homkant Surandase, a runaway teenager from an impoverished village where its farmers were committing suicide, stumbling upon Slum Soccer was a sharp turn of destiny. He began to find his self-esteem while he played on the field. His destiny took him all the way to Melbourne to represent India in the Homeless World Cup 2008. He came back with the determination to make change happen in the lives of many who were like him. Homkant today is a coach to street children, slum and shelter dwellers and also single-handedly manages the Slum Soccer in Nagpur.
Through Slum Soccer, the players are able to find meaningful employment, jobs in schools and companies. Many of them serve Slum Soccer as trainers – trainers who have themselves experienced the transformation that soccer has brought to them.