The visibility of Indian English fiction dates back to the fourth decade of the twentieth century when Mulk Raj Anand, R.K.Narayan and Raja Rao published their novels in English. 
Anand’s Untouchable (1935) and Coolie (1936), Narayan’s Swami and Friends (1935) and Bachelor of Arts (1936) and Raja Rao’s Kanthapura (1938) are the pioneering Indian English novels based on socio-political realism. 
Then came the partition of the sub-continent and a number of significant novels on the theme were published. They include Khushwant Singh’s Train to Pakistan, B.Rajan’s The Dark Dancer, Attia Hosain’s Sunlight on a Broken Column and Manohar Malgaonkar’s A Bend in the Ganges.
The trends in Indian English fiction focus on realism that underlies this genre in the post-Independence period. We come across five broad types of realism – social realism, psychological realism, historical realism, mythical realism and magic realism in Indian English fiction. 
Women novelists like Kamala Markandaya, Nayantara Sehgal and Shashi Deshpande lay emphasis on social realism and family relationship. The woman in women’s fiction seeks an identity of he
Nayantara Sehgal writes about the political situation in the country, and politics becomes a metaphor for her fiction. While Anita Desai dives deep into human psyche and writes about psychological realism.
Anita DesaiFire on the Mountain. The novel depicts the predicament of women in a society that fails to satisfy their desire and fulfil their hope.
Kiran Nagarkar’s Cuckold won him the Central Sahitya Akademi Award for 2000. Cuckold is a different kind of novel, the like of which we don’t find in Indian English literature. It is a culmination of history and legend, artistically woven into framework of fiction.
Vikram Seth has proved that Indian novelists do not write about India only, they also write about other countries and the world.
Upmanyu Chatterjee has contributed substantially to Indian English fiction. His novel English August depicts family relationship in contemporary society.
Indian English novelists have experimented with magic realism following Salman Rushdie’s Midnight’s Children. Amitav Ghosh is very successful in handling magic realism in his fiction.
Post-Independence Indian English fiction is post-colonial Indian English fiction because it continues to evoke colonial legacies in the contemporay society and seeks to compete with English language fiction for international prizes like the Commomwealth Fiction Prize, and the Booker Prize, etc.