 7 Ronaldinho
Despite not scoring many goals, Ronaldinho was the happiest player you'll ever see with asmile on his face. His arrival at the club changed Barcelona's fortunes. The club was in turmoil, and they were regarded as an utterly incompetent club in Europe, with Real Madrid dominating the league and winning the 2002 Champions League.
But when the club signed Ronaldinho from PSG, things changed. He brought dynamism andmade Barcelona a proficient club once again, and the 2005 season proved to be a decisive year, as the club won the Champions League for the first time in a decade, and the Brazilian
delivered unexpected performances, etching his name in Barcelona folklore, with 94 goals in 207 games.
6 David Villa
David Villa, like Suarez and Neymar, was a member of a lethal trio that included him, Pedro,and Messi. The trio wreaked havoc on opposing defences and combined for numerous goals.
He was arguably one of the best strikers with great striking ability, scoring an important goalin the 2011 Champions League final. David Villa left the club having scored 48 goals in 119 appearances, but fans will never forget how good he was.
5 Neymar
One of the best bargains Barcelona had done under Bartomeu, and the Brazilian had a greattime at the club, scoring 15 goals in his first season, and these statistics are even more impressive considering he struggled to settle in his first season. What followed was a peakNeymar of his career, where he played out wide and still managed to grab these numbers,displaying how impressive he was.
In 2015, he was a contender for the Ballon d'Or, scoring as many goals as Messi and
Ronaldo in the Champions League campaign. Barcelona released Neymar after receiving anenticing offer from PSG. with 186 games and 105 goals.
4 Samuel Eto’o
When discussing the best strikers in Barcelona history, Eto'o should be mentioned because he scored 30 goals twice while playing alongside Messi and Henry. The world was at his feetas one of the greatest African players.