More than 1 million refugees have left Ukraine ever since the Russian troops invaded the country less than a week ago, according to the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR). The European Union expects more refugee movement from the country which could cross 4 million as Russian soldiers make deep inroads into the country. 

Countries in the bloc as well as their citizens have relaxed their rules considerably for these migrants fleeing their home with “open arms”. This is in sharp contrast to the European refugee crisis of 2015 when over a million refugees fled their homes struck by conflict in the Middle East and Africa. The huge influx of migrants had seen strong anti-immigrant feelings in most European countries that snowballed into political issues, fanned by right-wing parties. 

Neighbouring countries such as Poland – so far 453,000 refugees have arrived there; 50,000 arriving every day – and Hungary – with 116,348 of them — have welcomed the migrants from Ukraine with no reservations. Moldova (79,315), Slovakia (67,000), Romania (44,450) and Bulgaria (10,000) are also accepting them. Just a few months ago, Poland had “push backed” thousands of refugees from the Middle East ruthlessly with water cannons and tear gas shells when they tried to cross its border with Belarus. Hungary’s authoritarian Prime Minister Viktor Orban erected barbed wire fence to keep away “Muslim invaders.” 

But in the case of Ukrainian refugees, the same Orban said his country is “letting everyone in.” Bulgarian Prime Minister Kiril Petkov told journalists that the Ukrainians are not refugees they are “used to” receiving in waves. They are “Europeans... intelligent and educated”, unlike “people with unclear pasts, who could have been even terrorists.” 

According to human rights experts, this perception demonstrates a double standard deeply rooted in many Europeans. It’s ironic that Ukraine's refugees, mostly white and Christian, are getting access to European countries more easily than Arabs and Africans who had suffered similar, if not worse, violence. The attitude of people and their leaders reflect xenophobia, based on racial discrimination and Islamophobia. 

READ MORE:

https://www.bbc.com/news/world-60555472

https://apnews.com/article/russia-ukraine-war-refugees-diversity-230b0cc790820b9bf8883f918fc8e313

https://www.newyorker.com/news/daily-comment/europes-other-migration-crisis

https://www.nytimes.com/2022/02/26/us/politics/ukraine-europe-refugees.html