Verified
Since the United States withdrawal from Afghanistan six months ago today, aid organizations have been begging the United States and other Western governments to unfreeze Afghan funds to the millions of civilians who are facing mass starvation and fuel shortages in the war-torn country.

But in a stunning decision last week, the Biden administration said it will seize the $7 billion of Afghanistan's frozen federal reserves and reroute Afghan-owned money to the families of 9/11 victims and international NGOs with large overhead. As a result, Afghans will only see a small portion of the NGOs' $3.5 billion invested in on-the-ground aid initiatives.

Biden is facing mounting criticism for the seizure, including from Afghan civilians themselves who are facing famine because they have stopped receiving salaries and are effectively barred from withdrawing their own personal assets due to the U.S. freeze — which Biden is upholding as necessary to prevent the money from getting into the hands of the Taliban.

But there are well-known financial strategies the U.S. could deploy to ensure the money went directly to Afghan civilians, says Afghan American activist Masuda Sultan, who lost 19 members of her family to the U.S. war.

Moreover, the decision to route money to 9/11 families is extremely hypocritical, given that no Afghans were involved in the 9/11 attack, says Medea Benjamin, co-founder of Code Pink. Instead, the Biden administration is painting themselves "as this great savior of Afghanistan" for releasing Afghan-owned assets as "aid" while taking no punitive action against Saudi Arabia, whose citizens actually led the 9/11 attack.

"Why don't we Americans have a clear idea of the privilege that we have in this country?" asks Phyllis Rodriguez, a member of September 11th Families for Peaceful Tomorrows, whose son Greg was killed in the World Trade Center attack. She insists the 9/11 families she knows want more "information" on how 9/11 happened — "not remuneration."