In the realm of superheroes all the way from every Marvel to DC film, there have been several amazing movies. But the one movie that trumped all of them in terms of its direction, ambition and craftsmanship was Zack Snyder’s Justice League. After the failure of the abominable 2017 Joss Whedon cut, through a massive online fan campaign, director Zack Snyder got to present his own vision for Justice League.

While the story was basically the same, through several changes, Snyder turned it into a completely different movie. Over four hours in length, while the duration may be enough to put off people at its mere mention, the direction is so sublime that the movie almost never feels like four hours.

The writing is cohesive and complete, and with such a strong focus on characterization, there is a lot of depth to each and every one of them, their goals and roles are clear, they all have history, their own traumas and struggles and they all work to overcome their weaknesses thus making them very relatable. In other words, there is a lot of human element involved in the development and growth of characters.

There is no useless political correctness, stupid comedy or imposition of some twisted socio-political construct, it is a movie made for the sake of telling a story, this was a project made as an art form full of passion and ambition, not simply to make more money. Snyder understands that unlike Marvel, DC is not a happy place and thus the dark tone of the movie and plenty of violence.

The Snyder Cut is a very different movie, and it’s a thousand times superior to the theatrical cut, and direction wise by far better than almost any Marvel movie. It has far better VFX than Josstice League, a consistent tone, a very menacing villain with a nice backstory, great music suited to the characters and every character was equally useful. Made by a man of vision Snyder Cut is an epic masterpiece that brilliantly sets up a story, and leaves you wanting to see the continuation of that epic story he’s created in this universe.  