There is a new Bianconera at the club and she comes in the shape of Dutch international Lineth Beerensteyn, who makes the move to Juventus Women from Bayern Munich. Welcome, Lineth!

At the age of 25, Beerensteyn, who will become the first Dutch player to wear the black and white jersey, arrives in Turin with an array of experience already under her belt, having spent the last five years playing for Bayern Munich. During her time with the German outfit, she raked up 25 goals in 128 appearances (with 100 of those fixtures ending all in maximum points), which helped result in winning the Frauen-Bundesliga 2020-21 title. That isn’t the only piece of silverware she has accumulated in her career: in her early years with ADO Den Haag, Beerensteyn won the KNVB Women’s Cup, while on an international level, she was part of the senior Dutch side that struck gold in the 2017 UEFA Women’s Euro and in the 2018 Algarve Cup.

The wide-sided attacker’s fiery pace has left many opponents in fear of her, while she is also known to have scored some trademark-headed goals, most recently in the UEFA Champions League against Brazil in the Tournoi de France and in the UEFA Champions League against Häcken.

"I am very proud to take this step to Juventus. The Italian Serie A has developed very fast in the past years and Juventus has played a leading role in this process. It was clear to see in the Champions League, where Juve narrowly lost to Olympique Lyon, the eventual winners. In this phase of my career, it is important to play as much as possible and have a leading role in the team because I want to keep developing as much as possible. Juventus thinks I can be of added value in multiple positions. And, the entire organization feels like one big family. This is why I decided to join them," added Lineth upon signing her contract.

Currently on international duty with the Netherlands for the forthcoming UEFA Women’s Euro 2022, Lineth will meet up with her new teammates once the tournament concludes.