Rangers face Eintracht Frankfurt in the Europa League final on Wednesday at the Estadio Ramon Sanchez Pizjuan in Seville, with only 90 minutes between them and a second European title.

In the semi-finals, Oliver Glasner's giant-killing team proved that their quarter-final victory against Barcelona was no fluke, as they dispatched West Ham United 3-1 on aggregate.

Meanwhile, the current crop of Gers players took part in one of the most historic evenings in Ibrox history in their second leg against RB Leipzig, winning 3-1 and advancing to their sixth European final.

This will not be the first time Frankfurt and Rangers have met, as Sports Mole examines how the two sides have fared in the past.

Frankfurt and Rangers have met in European play twice previously, with the two Europa League finalists meeting in the European Cup semi-finals in 1959–60.

Fans and neutrals alike received their money's worth throughout the two legs, as a total of 16 goals were scored in the two games, 12 of which were scored by Die Adler.

Rangers' journey to Deutsche Bank Park for the first leg got off to a good start, with Eric Caldow's penalty canceling out Dieter Stinka's opener to tie the game at halftime.

The Scottish team were then ripped apart in the second half, with Frankfurt scoring five times to take a commanding 6-1 lead into the second leg.

After scoring twice in the first leg, Frankfurt's Dieter Lindner scored after only six minutes of play at Ibrox, but Ian McMillan immediately equalized for Rangers.

Despite McMillan's and Davie Wilson's goals, Frankfurt defeated Rangers 6-3 on their home ground.

Die Adler would go to the final with a 12-4 aggregate victory, but Real Madrid would defeat them in the final with seven goals, four of which came from Ferenc Puskas, while Alfredo Di Stefano also scored a hat-trick.

A similarly goal-laden performance between the two teams in Seville would not go astray in terms of the spectacle, but fans should not anticipate such shoddy defense from their clubs 62 years on.