Dhar, Madhya Pradesh: For five months, Gattu Lal has had no idea where his daughter is. In 2021, he sent her away with a relative he thought he could trust. The 16-year-old went from Gugali, their village in the Nalchha tehsil of Madhya Pradesh’s (MP’s) south-western district of Dhar, to Indore’s Mhow tehsil, more than 65 km to the north-east, to work as a daily wage labourer.


One day he got a phone call that his daughter was missing from the work site. When more time passed, he lodged a first information report (FIR) at the Nalchha police station near his village. She was never found. 



“Pet paalan kaise karein? Isi liye bhej diya… (How do we feed ourselves? That’s why I sent her away),” said Gattu Lal, who belongs to the state’s Bhil community, a scheduled tribe with a literacy rate of just 42.2%, considerably lower than the nationwide average literacy rate for scheduled tribes of 59%.
Since 2016, MP has recorded the highest number of missing children in the country. At least 4,600 girls remained untraced from previous years, show official figures. 


Over 21% of the state’s population belongs to the scheduled tribes, communities that record the state’s poorest literacy and health parameters, lagging the general population by 18 percentage points on literacy, according to 2011 data, the latest available. 


The National Family Health Survey-5 (2019-21) found malnutrition among scheduled tribe children to be higher than among other children in the state. 


In the district of Dhar, while overall households with income below poverty line was 82.4%, over 88% of scheduled tribe households had incomes below poverty line, showed data. 
A Govt Priority, On Paper



The Bharatiya Janata Party’s longest serving chief minister, Shivraj Singh Chouhan, who had in 2016 flagged off the campaign Operation Muskaan or Operation Smile to rescue girls, had declared that tracing missing children would be a priority for his government.

Read more - https://article-14.com/post/24-children-mostly-adivasi-girls-go-missing-in-mp-every-day-but-it-isn-t-considered-an-extraordinary-situation--625f0f3f21e91