Trauma refers to an emotional response to an upsetting event, like a natural disaster or violent crime.

Racial trauma is a reaction to experiences of racism, including violence or humiliation. You might also hear it referred to as race-based trauma or race-based traumatic stress.

All types of trauma, including racial trauma, can contribute to the development of post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD), a mental health condition marked by a range of mental and physical effects.

Given how rampant racism is, it’s nearly impossible for Black, Indigenous, and People of Color (BIPOC) to avoid some level of racial trauma.

Here’s a closer look at what racial trauma involves, and how to find culturally appropriate support.

Who’s affected
Racial trauma affects anyone who experiences racism. These experiences don’t have to be direct.

If you’re Black, for example, repeated exposure to footage or written accounts of police brutality against other Black people is traumatic.

If you’re Asian, reading accounts of hate crimes against Asian people during the COVID-19 pandemic can be traumatic.

You may not have experienced these things yourself, but the impact of the information can cause significant distress, especially if it reminds you of previous experiences of racism.

Racial trauma can also be intergenerational, meaning it can affect multiple generations. You might experience racial trauma if an ancestor experienced ongoing racism, especially through things like genocide, slavery, or internment camps.

How it shows up
Traumatic experiences activate your body’s fight, flight, or freeze response. It triggers the release of stress hormones (cortisol and adrenaline). This release causes a range of physiological changes, including increased heart rate and heightened mental alertness.

This stress response is designed to help you survive threats of danger by either running away, fighting back, or pausing. Once the experience is over, the body gradually returns to its usual state.

But given how rampant racism is, BIPOC often repeatedly experience racial trauma, which can lead to the development of a range of symptoms.

Sources - https://www.healthline.com/health/mental-health/racial-trauma#symptoms