Gujrati food:
i. Cuisine:
Gujarati cuisine is delicious and mouthwatering since its residents have mastered the art of vegetarian cooking. A Thali Meal is the most delectable vegetarian feast and the best way to experience superb vegetarian Gujarati cuisine. The traditional Gujarati Thali is among the most excellent methods to learn about Gujarati cuisine. Gujarat's peculiar vegetarian food is flavoured by the traditional ingredients of Saurashtra, including mustard seed, turmeric, crushed red chillies, cumin, and coriander.
ii. Gujarati thali:
Typically, a Gujarati thali consists of one or two farsans, which are steamed or fried snacks, a green vegetable, a tuber or a gourd shaak, a kathol (braised pulses like beans, chickpeas, or dry peas), one or more yoghurt dishes like Dahi, kadhi (yoghurt and pulses soup), raita or sweet shrikhand, rice or khichdi Chutneys that are sweet, sour, and spicy, pickles, ghee, and a salad of chopped vegetables served either raw or spice-steamed are some of the accompaniments. Each main course's sweetness, bitterness, sourness, and heat level would differ between meals. The thali has more colours than a rainbow - the yellow of turmeric, the colours of various spices, the whiteness of dairy goods, the scarlet of tomatoes, the green of leafy vegetables, the brown of lentils, and so on.
In addition to parathas, savoury griddle bread known as the thepla, deep-fried puris, and thick and gritty bajra rotla, different pieces of bread eaten with a thali include thin unleavened wheat rotlis, thick and crisp whole wheat flour rotis known as bakeries, and others. These bread come in various flavours, such as masala puri or methi thepla. Many Gujarati farsans, snacks, and mini-meals are made to travel and keep well because Gujaratis are world travellers and have a sizable Gujarati Diaspora both within India and abroad. For example, chakras are crisp wafer-like Rotis made from wheat, cornflour, or lentils that can be carried and eaten with vegetables or accompaniments, and debris, made from a mixture of flours, can travel better than other Gujarati food.