Early Descriptions:-  Along the southern margin of the village mound is a large tank called as Suraj Pokhar which extends southwards to a length of about 1500’ and is about 450’ wide. The tank is traditionally believed to have been excavated by the founder of the place and the water is held very sacred by the local people. At its north western corner, on an extension of the village mound are the ruins of ancient brick temples, described in detail by Garrick. The portion of the mound on which these ruins stand is about 200’by120’ and is about 25’ higher than the surrounding country.

Present Status:- The lingas were still seen outside lying almost unattended near the pond. The pond was seen to be enclosed by walls, and seems to have been made after enclosing a small portion of the historical larger Suraj Pokhar. The priest informed that it was very ancient.  In the present days a large number of devotees visit the pond during the festival of Chatth, and pay their regards to the Sun God. This was told to be a tradition steeped in antiquity. The reverence for the Surya at this pond was also mentioned to have been very ancient. The local media reports about the presence of a large number of pilgrims during the Chhath festival.

The Fort Mound nearby:- About a mile south of the village, on the other side of the tank, Garrick noticed a large low mound, which the local people called as Bhagnagarh (i.e. ruined gadh) representing the Fort of the Chero Raja Phul Chand. According to Garrick ‘this garh must once have been an imposing city, whether the buildings were designed for purpose of fortification or as palatial residences.” Garrick during excavation at this site came across black fragments of burnt earthen vessels and broken tiles and bricks. Buchanan has noted another site as the fort of the Chero Raja. He has referred to some more mounds in the neighbourhood of Deo Markandeya. During my visit I was not aware about these findings of Cunningham and Garrick, else I would tried to explore them to learn the present situation.

To be continued...