Dr Robert W. Malone, an American virologist and immunologist, has been embroiled in controversies ever since the Covid-19 pandemic spread. Malone, a scientist among dozens of other researchers involved in mRNA technology that led to some of the vaccines against Covid-19, is now again in the eye of the storm for allegedly spreading misinformation against the vaccine.

Last week 270 doctors, scientists, researchers and health experts urged the streaming platform Spotify to crackdown on his latest round of misleading information on the pandemic and vaccines. They wrote an open letter to the platform regarding an episode of The Joe Rogan Experience, casted on December 31. In the podcast Malone promoted, the letter claimed, wild conspiracy theories which include one that, “societal leaders” have “hypnotized” millions and led to “mass formation” psychosis to convince people on vaccine efficacy. He even compared the phenomenon with those in Nazi Germany.  

He also discussed with the host Rogan how hospitals get “paid per Covid death and that the government gives them money and that they’re incentivized”. Most of these theories were quickly identified as false by fact checking websites and YouTube removed the clip of the interview, for violating its community guidelines. Earlier, Twitter permanently suspended Malone’s account for repeated violations of the platform’s misinformation policy. LinkedIn also removed his account.   

The experts wrote that his actions are objectionable, offensive and both medically and culturally dangerous. They said it is a “sociological issue of devastating proportions and Spotify is responsible for allowing this activity to thrive on its platform”.  

Malone is a favorite for anti-vaxxers, conspiracy theorists and media platforms that espouse similar views.  According to a report in The New York Times, the show was the result of a deal worth $100 million last year, and Rogan is known for his comments misleading people on the value of vaccines against Covid-19.  

READ MORE:

https://www.nytimes.com/2022/01/15/business/media/medical-professionals-urge-spotify-to-crack-down-on-covid-misinformation.html

https://www.cnbc.com/2022/01/14/experts-confront-spotify-over-misinformation-in-joe-rogan-podcast.html

https://www.theguardian.com/technology/2022/jan/14/spotify-joe-rogan-podcast-open-letter