The health effects of dietary fat are controversial. However, experts agree that olive oil —especially extra virgin —is good for you. Here are 10 health benefits of olive oil that are supported by scientific research.

1. Olive Oil Is Rich in Healthy Monounsaturated Fats: Olive oil is rich in monounsaturated oleic acid. This fatty acid is believed to have many beneficial effects and is a healthy choice for cooking.

2.Olive Oil Contains Large Amounts of Antioxidants: Extra virgin olive oil is fairly nutritious.Apart from its beneficial fatty acids, it contains modest amounts of vitamins E and K. But olive oil is also loaded with powerful antioxidants.These antioxidants are biologically active and may reduce your risk of chronic diseases.

3. Olive Oil Has Strong Anti-Inflammatory Properties: Olive oil contains nutrients that fight
inflammation.These include oleic acid as well as the antioxidant oleocanthal.

4.Olive Oil May Help Prevent Strokes: Several large studies demonstrate that people who consume olive oil have a much lower risk of stroke,the second biggest killer in developed countries.

5. Olive Oil Is Protective Against Heart Disease: Extra virgin olive oil has numerous benefits for heart health.It lowers blood pressure, protects “bad” LDL cholesterol particles from oxidation and improves the function of blood vessels.

6.Olive Oil Is Not Associated With Weight Gain and Obesity: Consuming olive oil does not appear to
increase the likelihood of weight gain.Moderate intake may even aid weight loss.

7. Olive Oil May Reduce Type 2 Diabetes Risk: Both observational studies and clinical trials suggest that olive oil,combined with a Mediterranean diet,can reduce your risk of type 2 diabetes.

8.The Antioxidants in Olive Oil Have Anti-Cancer Properties: Preliminary evidence suggests that olive oil may reduce cancer risk,but further studies are needed.

9. Olive Oil Can Help Treat Rheumatoid Arthritis: Olive oil can help reduce joint pain and swelling from rheumatoid arthritis.The beneficial effects are greatly increased when combined with fish oil.

10.Olive Oil Has Antibacterial Properties: Extra virgin olive oil has antibacterial properties and has been found to be particularly effective against Helicobacter pylori,a type of bacterium that can cause stomach ulcers and stomach cancer.