How COVID-19 can affect your heart health

Coronavirus primarily affects the respiratory system, leading to a wide array of symptoms related to the lungs after infection. The virus enters the respiratory system and multiples there before spreading to the other parts of the body. It affects several organs, including the heart. Even if the person is healthy and does not suffer from any comorbidities, the contagious virus can lead to long term heart-related issues.

How can COVID-19 affect the heart?

In the case of severe coronavirus, most people develop pneumonia. The conditions block the airways and can even turn out to be fatal. Apart from this, it can alsodamage to the heart muscle, or severe clotting, resulting in a heart attack or stroke and be a reason for loss of life.

As per experts, when coronavirus enters the heart, it can infect the heart muscle and the inner lining of the heart, eventually leading to an inflammatory response. In medical terms, this condition is referred to as myocarditis.

COVID-19 can also lead to blood clotting

Another common short-term symptom of coronavirus can be clotting of blood. Blood clotting is referred to as a clump of cells and protein, which changes the blood from a liquid to a gel-like or semi-solid state. In coronavirus infection, clotting can be found deep in the veins of different parts of the body. It is mostly found in the legs and the lungs. Blood clotting can get better by taking proper treatment and medication. It is not harmful unless it is immobile. Once it breaks free and travels to other parts of the body, it can travel to other parts of the body and can prevent blood flow. Severe clotting can lead to other diseases like stroke, heart attacks, and damage other organs, like the bowels.

Other ways COVID-19 can affect the heart health

In the long term, COVID-19 can lead to unusual symptoms in the cardiovascular system like abnormal heart rate and heart rhythm. Even high blood pressure can also be linked with long term COVID-19.

Source : https://m.timesofindia.com/life-style/health-fitness/health-news/coronavirus-symptoms-ways-in-whi