Assembly election Updates 

‌UP : Home minister Amit Shah, who campaigned in Saharanpur in western Uttar Pradesh on Saturday, also held an organisational meeting and laid force on the work by 'panna pramukhs' and booth committee chiefs to boost party's prospects in the seats in the region, many of which have a sizeable presence of the Jat community. 

Sources said the organisational meeting in Saharanpur lasted for about 45 minutes and around 100 leaders and workers of the party were present.

‌Meanwhile Akhilesh Yadav is confident as he claims that the BJP will get zero seats in western UP and the farmers are ready to topple the ruling party from Uttar Pradesh in the upcoming assembly polls. 

‌Echoing union home minister Amit Shah and chief minister Yogi Adityanath’s campaign line in Uttar Pradesh, union minister Smriti Irani said the Samajwadi Party was equivalent to “lawlessness and goondaraj".

‌Ahead of Uttar Pradesh Assembly polls, Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath on Saturday called Samajwadi Party (SP) "Tamanchawadi" and said the Akhilesh Yadav-led party runs on family politics and riotist ideology. 

Taking to Twitter, Yogi Adityanath said, "Outfit 'Socialist'+ ideology 'Riotist' + dreams 'Family' = Tamanchawadi." 

‌Goa : The Income Tax Department confiscated cash worth Rs 6.20 crore from a hawala operator in Margao according to officials. According to the I-T department, the money was meant to be distributed amongst voters for influencing them during the ensuing Goa Assembly election.

‌Manipur : Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday congratulated Manipur after the state welcomed its first-ever freight train.

‌The PM said that a freight-train connection would strengthen the state's commerce and connectivity as goods from there will reach all parts of the country.
"Transformation of the Northeast continues. Manipur's connectivity will be enhanced and commerce will be boosted. Wonderful products from the state can travel all over the nation,"
 Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Twitter tagging a post of Union minister for development of north eastern region G Kishan Reddy.

‌