So agonizing close, but it was not meant to be. Next year will be the one.

Words Liverpool fans must be frustratingly used to by now as their team ended another magical
season just behind Manchester City in second.

Liverpool were 10 minutes away from completing a historic treble, until Ilkay Gundogan’s 82th minute strike sunk the hearts of the red
part of Merseyside. However, The Reds can hold their head incredibly high for the stellar
campaign they’ve had across all competitions - winning the two domestic cups and the
possibility of winning a treble after all against Real Madrid in the Champions League.

Liverpool have built pretty much their complete squad, with lone summer signing of Ibrahima
Konate to strengthen the defense. Liverpool started the season, and of course out of all people -
it was Mo Salah who shone the brightest, scoring 10 goals in the first 9 league games.

The season was of fine margins, and it was fine margins that cost Liverpool the title ultimately.
Early draws to 10-man Chelsea, Brentford and failure to win against Manchester City throughout
the season was the reason why they fell short. Liverpool lost form around New Year, and a loss
to Leicester and draw against Chelsea meant more dropped points.

Liverpool then picked up steam and became an unstoppable juggernaut, winning ten matches
straight despite the absence of Mo Salah and Sadio Mane owing to AFCON. Winter signing Luis
Diaz was on fire, contributing with the goals with Jota chipping in to carry Liverpool in their star
strikers absence.

Liverpool put on the pressure on Manchester City, who dropped points themselves - handing the
fate of the Premier League to Liverpool.

However, it all came crashing down with a 1-1 draw
with Tottenham at Anfield, meaning Manchester City was once again in charge at the top of the table. Liverpool played admirably, winning their last three matches but alas, it was a little too
late. They finished the season second with 92 points. Perhaps the best signing of their season
was to tie Jurgen Klopp down to a new deal for two additional years.