US president Joe Biden has labelled Russian president Vladimir Putin a “war criminal” for the way the war in Ukraine is being carried out.

Experts collating the numbers of casualties in Ukraine report that Russia is failing to acknowledge it has killed civilians in its military action, just as it did in Syria, where Russia began its military engagement in support of the Assad government in 2015 with intense airstrikes and artillery actions.

Russian officials and state media claim they are only attacking military sites. To date, Russia has not publicly accepted responsibility for a single civilian death in Ukraine.

Biden’s comment came after Russian forces had bombed a maternity and children’s hospital in southern Ukraine, injuring at least 17 people in the attack.

At least 13 people were killed in a Russian attack on an industrial bakery in Makariv, west of Kyiv, and it was estimated by the UN’s Office of the High Commissioner for Human Rights (OHCHR) that two weeks into the Russian invasion at least 549 Ukrainian civilians had been killed, 41 of them children, rising to 780 killed (722 adults and 58 children) by March 17.

According to Kharkiv regional police, between February 24, when the invasion began, and March 7, 133 civilians were killed, five of them children. An attack documented by Human Rights Watch included the case of a man who was killed as he waited in line outside a supermarket.

But the OHCHR believes that the overall figures of civilian deaths are considerably higher than local estimates. This is because individual civilian reports from locations where intense hostilities have been going on has been delayed and many reports are still awaiting corroboration.

The office of the Ukrainian president, Volodymyr Zelensky, claims 1,500 residential buildings, 202 schools and 34 hospitals have been shelled across the country.

Ukraine’s defence ministry has said that Russia has lost 14,200 military personnel, while Ukrainian forces destroyed 450 Russian tanks, 1,448 armoured vehicles, 93 planes, 112 helicopters and 12 drones. 

Read full-story at The Conversation: https://theconversation.com/ukraine-war-how-russian-denial-of-civilian-casualties-follows-tactics-used-in-syria-179583

Image Courtesy: EPA-EFE/Miguel A. Lopes