A continued summary of stories and testimonies by 58 transgender adults on how critically life-saving access to gender-affirming care is, as documented in an amicus brief in response to an Arkansas law that would ban this healthcare for trans youth in the state:

Clinical Research Manager Alexander B. Harris said: “receiving gender-affirming care was a matter of my body no longer being neglected or systematically made to feel unimportant.”

Legal Director at Southern Arizona Gender Alliance, Abigail Jensen had been experiencing clinical depression for years before gender-affirming care, and said: “My first dose of estrogen at the beginning of my transition was instantly the best anti-depressant I have ever taken. Although I continue to need other anti-depressants, estrogen and living as my true self are critical parts of my mental health.” 

Communications Director at Groundswell Fund, Wen Brovold said that after starting hormones and receiving top surgery, “My depression and anxiety have decreased by 90%. I was able to cut my depression medication in half. Now I stand taller and laugh deeper.”

Attorney Ames Simmons said: “my life did not suddenly become free of anxiety and depression. But I certainly feel better equipped to face those things because I have had gender-affirming medical care.”

Clinical Instructor at Harvard Law School Cyberlaw Clinic, Alejandra Caraballo said: “One of the consistent things I’ve been told by friends and family is just how much happier and joyful I am after I came out.”

Clinical Instructor at LGBTQ+ Advocacy Clinic in Harvard Law School, Anya Marino’s parents have: “frequently have remarked that I have an energy and joy I had lacked during the thirty-five years I did not have access to gender-affirming care.”

Activist Major Griffin-Gracy explained that self-determining her medical choices improved her self-confidence.

Founder of Trans Equity Consulting Cecilia Gentili said: “Transgender youth know who they are, and they know what they need. Our job is to listen to them.”

-
If you or someone you know is feeling hopeless or is at risk of suicide, contact Trevor Project’s Lifeline 24/7/365 at 1-866-488-7386.

The National Suicide Prevention Lifeline: 1-800-273-8255, https://suicidepreventionlifeline.org/chat/