By BestMediaInfo Bureau
Sumanto Chattopadhyay, Chairman and Chief Creative Officer of 82.5 Communications, has called it a day after 30 years with Ogilvy Group.
With Chattopadhyay moving on, Anuraag Khandelwal and Mayur Varma will take on the creative leadership role as joint Chief Creative Officers of 82.5 Communications India.
In a press statement, Ogilvy said that both Khandelwal and Verma are home-grown leaders - seeped in the Ogilvy group culture, part of the 82.5 founding team and amongst the most talented, exciting creative leaders in the country, with a great body of internationally and nationally acclaimed work to show.
Piyush Pandey
Piyush Pandey, Chairman Global Creative and Executive Chairman India, Ogilvy, said,  “Sumanto Chattopadhyay has spent 30 glorious years with Ogilvy and 82.5 and retires after well-played long innings. Sumanto leaves with blessings and good wishes from all of us at Ogilvy and 82.5.”
“I am delighted to announce the appointment of two new CCOs who will work together to keep 82.5 shining. Mayur Varma and Anuraag Khandelwal are experienced and Ogilvy-trained creative stars who have international and national recognition for their phenomenal creative work over the years. I am happy that Sumanto leaves behind a solid creative leadership for 82.5,” Pandey added.
Kapil Arora
Kapil Arora, Co-Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, 82.5 Communications India, said, “I’ve had the privilege of being Sumanto’s partner these last three years and have much to thank him for, including helping build 82.5 Communications into a formidable agency in such a short period of time. 
Sumanto is well known for grooming fantastic leaders throughout his career. As is the case with Anuraag Khandelwal and Mayur Varma. They are two of the best new-age, open and fearless creative leaders and I can’t wait for them to bring their ideas, energy and creative vision for the future of 82.5 Communications, to life.”
Read more: https://bestmediainfo.com/2022/09/sumanto-chattopadhyay-quits-82-5-communications-mayur-varma-and-anuraag-khandelwal-named-jointccos