Switching from a metered-dose inhaler to a dry powder version for maintenance therapy more than halves the carbon footprint of people with asthma, and without any worsening of their condition, finds a pharma industry sponsored study published online in the journal Thorax. 

This substitution would be an acceptable and worthwhile 'green' option for most patients who can safely manage their condition at home, and should be widely encouraged, conclude the researchers. 

The use of chlorofluorocarbons (CFCs) in aerosol propellants was banned under the 1987 Montreal Protocol agreement because of their impact on global warming. 

But while the hydrofluorocarbons that replaced CFCs in pressurized metered-dose inhalers don't deplete the ozone layer, they are potent greenhouse gases, say the researchers. Emissions from this source account for 3–4% of the total carbon footprint associated with healthcare in the UK. 

The researchers wanted to compare the potential impact on carbon footprint and symptom control of switching maintenance therapy to a dry powder inhaler and continuing with a metered-dose inhaler containing hydrofluorocarbon propellant. 

They carried out a secondary (post hoc) analysis of data from a group of patients who were part of the Salford Lung Study in Asthma. This included a broad range of 4000 patients with asthma who were managing their condition at home and closely reflected routine UK clinical practice. 

Adults with asthma on regular maintenance therapy to control their symptoms were randomly assigned to either start using a dry powder inhaler (1081; 'switch group') or to continue using a pressurised metered dose inhaler (1151; 'usual care') for a period of 12 months. 

Both groups were matched for average age (49) and symptom severity. Symptom control was assessed at the start of the study, and after 12, 24, 40, and 52 weeks, using a validated test (Asthma Control Test). 

Annual CO2 emissions in kg were calculated for the total number of maintenance (preventer and rescue) inhalers prescribed over the 12 month study period. 


Read more - https://www.news-medical.net/news/20220206/Switching-from-metered-dose-inhaler-to-a-dry-powder-reduces-carbon-footprint-of-asthma-treatment.aspx