By Nisha Qureshi 

The widely popular antacid brand Eno is celebrating half-a-century of its presence in India. Launched by British pharmacist James Crossley in the year 1852, the brand entered the Indian market in 1972 through GSK. 

Today, Eno claims to have a 50% market share in the antacid category in India.

According to Bhawna Sikka, Digestive Health Business Lead at GSK Consumer Healthcare India, it is the brand’s constant presence across advertising mediums and its extensive distribution that has made it a household name.

The brand has had several memorable campaigns such as ‘Eno on. Acidity gone’, ‘Kaam shuru sirf 6 second me’, ‘Jhatt se aaram, Jiyo life non-stop.’

A look at ENO’s brand communication over the decades:

https://youtu.be/7osLDN8nVWA

According to Sikka, the brand’s communication strategy has changed over the years. From communicating functional benefits such as quick relief in the 90s, the brand is now focusing on communicating the importance of Eno in the consumer’s life with campaigns like ‘Eno on. Gadbad gone’.

https://youtu.be/Jsr_tiv5fR8?t=4

https://youtu.be/3D-XULdYUGI

Current marketing strategy

Sikka said that the brand wants people to think of ENO as the one-stop solution for their gastric issues. Sikka said in the pandemic period as people started working from home, they ordered a lot from restaurants and indulged in binge eating, with this the number as well as the frequency of people experiencing gastric issues increased.

“This is an enormous opportunity for the brand to help people. While people are taking home remedies like ‘nimbu paani, zeera, ajwain’, our research tells us that people end up suffering longer. The result is not instant.”

“Our communication from 2020 talks about why should one not prolong acidity when you have an instant solution. We are talking a lot more directly to the consumer about the popular remedies that people take and how they will lead them to suffer more. The earlier communications were all functional but in the last 5-6 years we have seen that the brand has reached a place where it can take a higher stance and create an emotional connection with the audience,” said Sikka.

Read the full story here:- https://bestmediainfo.com/2022/07/brand-journey-how-eno-has-become-synonymous-with-the-antacid-category