Weaknesses
The clear weakness in this side is their defensive solidity. The midfield is an area that contributes to this and Leeds lost their captain Kalvin Phillips to Manchester City in the summer transfer window. Phillips played such a role in defensive midfield that allowed Leedsto play their attacking brand of football and when he was out with an injury last season, the performance of the side dropped massively. Phillips possessed the quality to provide great support to the defensive especially in transitions when the opposition would look to attack Leeds’s defence. This is an area which Marsch will look to improve and the club were unableto bring in a player who has a similar profile to Phillips in the transfer window, therefore, thisis definitely a position the club should look to strengthen in the January transfer window.
Opportunities
Given how dangerous Leeds can be going forward they can cause many teams problems and Marsch should look to implement a style of play which suits his attacking players. He has obviously paid a lot of attention and focus in improving the defensive solidity to the team which was required and if Leeds can stop conceding goals frequently, they have the quality in attack to aim for a top 10 place finish in the league. They should also look to be competitive in the domestic competitions as a trophy would be hugely significant for the fansgiven the rich history of the club. This will also instantly make Marsch a legend in the fan’seyes.
Threats
The biggest threat in this squad is the lack of a holding midfielder and Leeds must avoid another campaign where they are fighting to stay up in the league like last season. Opposing teams will identify this being a big threat as it impacts the defence which is not solid, and this has been seen this season as Leeds suffered a heavy 5-2 defeat at the hands of Brentford.
Take a look at Leeds’s squad for the Premier League 2022/23 campaign:
https://www.premierleague.com/clubs/9/Leeds-United/squad