The American Women Quarters Program is a four-year program that celebrates the accomplishments and contributions made by women to the development and history of the United States of America. Under this programme poet and activist Maya Angelou became the 1st Black woman on a US coin. Angelou rose to fame after her autobiography “ I know why the caged Bird sings”. Maya Angelou’s commemoration under the American women Quarters Programme is a big step towards Gender Equality and intersectional Feminism. The quarter for the last 90 years has shown the nation’s first president George Washington. According to the U.S treasury Janet Yellen redesigning their The American Women Quarters Program is a four-year program that celebrates the accomplishments and contributions made by women to the development and history of the United States of America. Under this programme poet and activist Maya Angelou became the 1st Black woman on a US coin. Angelou rose to fame after her autobiography “ I know why the caged Bird sings”. Maya Angelou’s commemoration under the American women Quarters Programme is a big step towards Gender Equality and intersectional Feminism. The quarter for the last 90 years has shown the nation’s first president George Washington. According to the secretary of the U.S treasury Janet Yellen redesigning their currency gives them a chance to portray what they value as a country and how they have progressed as a society, and she is very proud that these coins celebrate the contributions of remarkable American women including Maya Angelou. The American Women Quarters Program also features, Sally Ride the 1st American woman in space and Wilma Mankiller the 1st female Principle chief of the Cherokee Nation among others. gives them a chance to portray what they value as a country and how they have progressed as a society, and she is very proud that these coins celebrate the contributions of remarkable American women including Maya Angelou. The American Women Quarters Program also features, Sally Ride the 1st American woman in space and Wilma Mankiller the 1st female Principle chief of the Cherokee Nation among others.