"I was dead for 5 minutes". 

- Christian Eriksen


June 12, 2021. Denmark played against Finland in the first group match of the tournament.  Most important and valuable player of Denmark, Christian Eriksen, falls down near the left side of the field while preparing to receive a throw-in. All the players and spectators panicked. Players surrounded him and made a wall to cover their valuable player. It was a cardiac arrest; he was given cardiopulmonary resuscitation and was later fitted with an implantable cardioverter-defibrillator. Eriksen was taken to hospital. 


World prayed for his life. Denmark players bravely agreed to continue the game. In the next match, all of the opposing team's fans chanted Eriksen's name. It was confirmed he was safe. Team reached the semi final, dedicating it to Eriksen. 



6 months after the cardiac arrest, he started individual practice at his youth academy facility, OB in Odense. But, by that time, Inter Milan had announced that they had terminated his contract. When he returned, Brentford signed him as a free agent. In the first match for Brentford, they lost against Newcastle 2-0. But, they have won the next 3 : Norwich City (3-1), Burnley (2-0) and Chelsea. This was Brentford's first win over Chelsea since 1939

He returned to international football, on 26th March 2022, against Netherlands, as a substitute in the 46th minute, and scored a fabulous goal in the next minute. 


The 30-year-old is the first top-flight player fitted with an Implantable Cardioverter Defibrillator (ICD), which can reset the heart after a cardiac arrest. When the unfortunate incident happened, he was his country's seventh-highest all-time goalscorer(38), and was named Danish Football Player of the Year a record five times. Eriksen made his senior international debut for Denmark in 2010 at age 18, and has since earned over 111 caps, including appearing in five major tournaments; he was also the youngest player at the 2010 FIFA World Cup. Denmark have already qualified for the 2022 Qatar world cup. Players and the fans around the world wish he continues playing for a long time and keep motivating young.