Ecuador fans are delighted that their country will make an appearance at the World Cup after eight years. But their travel to Qatar could be jeopardised if Chile have their way in the appeals committee meeting of the FIFA. Chile has appealed against the disciplinary committee’s verdict that Byron Castillo is eligible to play for Ecuador. The Disciplinary Committee rejected the Chile claim that Castillo was ineligible, which would ordinarily result in all the qualifiers he played in being awarded as 3-0 victories to Ecuador’s opponents and therefore moving Chile up to a qualification place. The Chileans claim Castillo, who made eight appearances in Ecuador’s qualification campaign, was actually born in Colombia, is three years older than Ecuadorian officials say and was ineligible to play for Ecuador.
Chile are still hopeful that things will turn in their favour, though the chances of the appeals committee reverting he decision of the disciplinary committee appear slim. But then, this is not the first time issues regarding a footballer’s eligibility has come up. In August 2011, FIFA expelled Syria from the 2014 World Cup qualifiers following the appearance of George Mourad in a senior qualification match against Tajikistan. Mourad had made friendly match appearances for Sweden earlier in his career, but had not requested permission from FIFA to change national associations before playing for Syria.
During the 2018 World Cup qualifiers, Bolivia fielded Paraguay born Nelson David Cabrera (who had also played for Paraguay) in two matches—against Peru and Chile. Cabrera was subsequently found to be ineligible, which resulted in the awarding of 3–0 wins for Bolivia's opponents, affecting the final standings in the table and contributing to Peru’s qualification for the World Cup. Ironically, it happened at the expense of Chile, who are now looking for justice and a place in the World Cup at the cost of Ecuador. The Chile football federation general secretary has been quoted saying: “What is at stake here is not just a place in the 2022 World Cup, but the entire principle of fair play.”