Story of Queen Elizabeth.
Queen Elizabeth was born in Mayfair, London as the first child of the Duke and Duchess of York. She was educated at home privately and she also started doing undertake public duties during the Second World War. In November 1947, she get married to Philip Mountbatten, a former prince of Greece and Denmark and their marriage lasted 73 years until he died in April 2021. They had 4 children. Charles, Prince of Wales; Anne, Princess Royal;Prince Andrew, Duke of York; and Prince Edward, Earl of Wessex. Her father died in 1952 then 25 year old Elizabeth become queen regnant of seven independent Commonwealth countries: The United Kingdom, Canada, Australia, New Zealand, South Africa, Pakistan, and Sri Lanka as well as head of Commonwealth. Her main historic visits and meetings include state visits to China in 1986, Russia in 1994, the Republic of Ireland in 2011.
Significant events include Elizabeth's coronation in 1953 and the celebration of her Silver, Golden, Diamond and Platinum jubilees in 1977,2002,2012and 2022, respectively. She is the longest lived and longest reigning British monarch, the oldest and longest serving  incumbent head of state and the second longest verifiable reigning sovereign monarch in world history. Taking the throne on Feb 6, 1952, the queen has ruled the relam for 70 years and 127 days that is 6 February 2022.
Queen Elizabeth has eight grandkids and twelve great grandchildren. Her grandchildren are Prince William eldest son of Prince Charles and Diana, Prince Henry of Wales, Zara Tindall daughter of Princess Anne and her first husband Captain Mark Phillips,Peter Mark Andrew Phillips the only son of Princess Annr and her first husband Captain Mark Phillips, Princess Beatrice of York eldest daughter of the Duke of York and Sarah, Princess Eugenie of York the youngest of Prince Adrew and Sarah,Lady Louise Alice Elizabeth Mary Mountbatten Windsor the eldest child and only daughter of prince Edward and Sophie Wessex, James, Viscount Servern the youngest child and only son of the Earl and Countress of Wessex.