In Australia, the discussion around gendered violence is increasingly focused on diversity. However, policy and services continue to be based mostly on the experiences of white, Anglo-settler women.

Our research, published in the Journal of Intercultural Studies, involved interviews with 31 frontline workers. These workers came from mainstream domestic violence organisations, refugee resettlement organisations, and migrant organisations who support women experiencing violence.

Blaming ‘culture’
Our research revealed domestic and family violence in refugee and migrant communities is often racialised and blamed on “culture”.

Some workers indicated “culture” contributed to refugee or ethnic minority women “putting up with” violence, where Anglo-settler Australian women would, apparently, not.

One Anglo-settler worker from a mainstream domestic violence organisation said:

Maybe they’re not used to having freedoms and rights and protection […] I’ve just noticed that women from perhaps African countries or Middle Eastern countries, possibly refugee women […] have a much higher tolerance I would say to violence […] they put up with a lot before reaching out.

When white women seem to “put up with” violence, the conversation is not about their “culture”. Instead, the focus is on what might prevent them from leaving.

That includes economic vulnerabilities and homelessness, and fear for their or their children’s safety. It includes worries that the law and police may not be able to protect them.

Instead of focusing on systemic problems and broader social inequalities, many blame women’s cultural backgrounds as the reason for them not engaging with mainstream services.

That’s despite evidence migrant and refugee women experiencing violence often encounter particular barriers – such as deportation threats, and financial or language barriers – when they do reach out.

Critiquing the ‘culturally and linguistically diverse’ tag
The category of “culturally and linguistically diverse” reinforces the idea culture is something possessed by foreigners, refugees or ethnic minorities – rather than something all Australians have.

Quite a few service workers used “Australian” to refer to white Anglo-settlers, when actually people of diverse ethnicities and identities are obviously Australian too.

Read more: https://theconversation.com/refugee-and-migrant-women-are-often-excluded-from-mainstream-domestic-violence-services-and-policy-187164