Concussions and other brain injuries have long been considered an unavoidable risk of participating in sports. Despite this, no meaningful actions have been taken to reduce the number of cases or treat them. Instead, gamers are generally left to deal with the repercussions, which are sometimes not detected until symptoms have developed.


Dr. James Giordano, a professor of neurology and biochemistry at Georgetown University Medical Center, believes that even a minor head injury can cause neurological damage with long-term consequences. He argues that the following are the first signs of possible neurological damage:1

Disorientation
Various degrees of perplexity
Vision is hazy
Problems with movement and balance
Fatigue/Nausea
Another exploratory research from Brain Injury looked at blood samples obtained one and 12 hours after professional soccer players were hit in the head during a game, multiple balls to the head, and intense training. Medical experts may be able to utilise the first two points as brain injury indicators, according to researchers. 2

This illustrates an important point: a head injury can occur without resulting in a concussion. "Repeat head traumas, including'minor' head injuries, also known as sub-concussive head injuries, have been discovered to produce microstructural consequences on the brain," says Dr. Ilan Danan, a sports neurologist at Cedars-Sinai Kerlan-Jobe Institute's Center for Sports Neurology and Pain Medicine.

A research from Brain Communication, which looked at the brain vital signs of football players 14 years or younger in the pre- and post-season, adds to this. There was a relationship between head blows and alterations in vital signs in the brain.
The necessity of diagnosing head trauma becomes even more evident once you're aware of the symptoms and potential consequences. While individuals bear some responsibility for keeping track of injuries and indicators of damage, determining the degree of their symptoms can be difficult.


Even if you don't play contact sports, Gee emphasizes the importance of staying aware of head injuries and always wearing a helmet.