(In continuation to the first part)

The World at that time was in a timid state with potents of an impending World War.

The 2nd, 3rd Gorkhas (2nd battalion of 3rd Gorkhas) participated in the First World War and captured the village of "Neuve Chapelle", killing many Germans. Later in Sept. 1915, it became part of the Garhwal Brigade to turn the " LabBessy's" defences, during which rifleman Kulbir Thapa evacuated 3 wounded colleagues under fire and became the first Gorkha soldier to win the "Victoria Cross".

During the same war, the 3rd and the 4th battalions saw actions in Waziristan and Bana and were honoured with no. of gallantry awards.

The coming years witnessed the 3rd Gorkhas playing a key role in the Second World War. The 1st, 3rd Gorkhas, captured Meiktila and also took part in fierce battles at Tawana and Pyawbwe. 2nd, 3rd Gorkhas fought at Villa Grande when their mighty 'Khukris' were used to such devastating effect that the Germans could not cross the lines.

The Battalion was awarded numerous battle honours. With the passage of time, as various wars were fought, accounts of the indomitable courage of the brave Gorkhas added to their legends. The 4th Battalion was re-raised in 1941 to fight on North-West Frontier when it won the MBE (Member of Most Excellent Order of British Empire) along with other medals.

Post-Independence, the 3rd Gorkhas continued to play an important role in all the battles that were fought. In 1948, in a Battle of Uri sector in Jammu & Kashmir, the 2nd, 3rd Gorkhas captured the feature of 'PirKanthi' with a ferocious night attack. The Battalion for showcasing this valour was awarded 3 Vir Chakras and several other awards. The Battalion also won the battle honour 'Uri'.

The 3rd Gorkha Regiment was further strengthened with the raising of the 4th and 5th battalions in the years 1962 and 1963.

In 1965, the 4th, 3rd Gorkha proved its mettle when it carried out a successful raid in the J&K sector against a Pak-post—Penga when our troops crossed the border and inflicted heavy losses on the enemy.

TBC...