Kolkata: Moynamoti Soren, a homemaker in her mid thirties and a mother of two, was a daily attendee at the sit-in demonstration in an open field in Baromeshia village, located 220 km northwest of Kolkata in the southwestern district of Birbhum. The peaceful demonstration that began on 23 February 2022 was still continuing when this story was published, with a few hundred mostly Adivasi residents of nearby villages in attendance every day. 


Soren would not part with the 3.3 acres of land her family owns in neighbouring Dewanganj village, where her four-member family lives. She began to visit the Baromeshia protest to add her voice to the growing concern among the region’s Adivasi villagers about displacement and dispossession. 


Baromeshia and Dewanganj are among 12 villages that will be affected by the Deocha-Pachami coal mining project to be undertaken by West Bengal’s Mamata Banerjee government. India’s largest coal block is located here, sitting under layers of basaltic rock, with estimated coal reserves of 1,198 million tonne of coal, and 1,400 million cubic metres of basalt.

To put that in perspective, the state power utility that generates more than half of West Bengal's annual requirement of 9,000 MW of power through its six thermal plants uses 24 million tonnes of coal per year. In 2019, India used 687 million tonnes of coal for all its thermal power plants and the Deocha-Pachami’s coal reserves is 1.74 times bigger. 



The project will entail chief minister Banerjee’s first-ever large scale land pooling for industry. It will also be the state’s first large scale industrial project since the violent protests of 2006-07 against land acquisition in Nandigram and Singur during the tenure of the previous Left Front government. 


The project is critical for Banerjee, who ahead of the 2021 assembly election had declared that employment generation would be the focus of her third term if she returned to power. 

Read More - https://article-14.com/post/mamata-banerjee-s-model-to-gather-land-for-industry-bypasses-critical-requirements-of-the-law--6268aea4d4076