In this series we are going to look into the Blockbuster malayalam movie, Amen, released in 2013 directed by the award winning film maker Lijo Jose Pellissery. 

The story is a perfect romantic comedy satirical musical one and one can evidently see the brilliance of LJP. 

Through nature's aesthic beauty the visuals of the village Kumarankary captivates one's eyes. 

Within the movie various foods related to Kuttanad were introduced. 

Amalgamation between the foods and the movie 

Puttu and Naadan (Native) Fish curry - The puttu is the steamed rice cake which is pretty soft while it's just taken from the stove, but as the steam goes down the rice cake gets hardened. This dish can represent the protagonist's lover Sosanna, performed by Swathi Reddy, she's portrayed as a lovable one to her lover but gets angry while he doesn't take proper decisions in life. Similarly she gets super mad while someone speaks or does anything to her lover as she gets angry as how spicy curry makes us cry. The Naddan fish curry is a must try on the list as the flavours just roves a boat in our mouth. 

Karimeen Pollichathu - Karimeen Pollichathu that is a grilled Pearl spot fish wrapped in banana leaf. The intoxicating aroma of these dishes cooked in earthenware keeps you craving for more. And the most suitable characters to this dish are the antagonists where there are many like Makarand Deshpande who did the character Chevalier Pothachan, Sandra Thomas as Mariyamma and many who intends to do harm to others outside but some like Mariyamma stands for justice and right as seen by the end of the movie. 

Tapioca and fish - The lip-smacking combination of Kappa (tapioca) and fish is an extremely popular dish of Kuttanad. This totally shows the protagonist's character Solomon enacted by Fahad (FAFA). He is a very polite and pro social person but is unable to stand for himself where he initially had a tapioca kind of behaviour with neutral stands like its taste but by the end of the movie he showcased his talents as a clarinet player in the band.