Can Omicron make covid 19 mild to the level of being an endemic disease. 
This is the question people around the world are asking and many experts believe it may happens 
Speaking on Monday Anthony Fauci, top US infectious disease official,  said that he hopes Covid will become endemic in 2022, but it can only happen if no new variants emerge. He said the question remained open.

When is a disease called endemic. 
An endemic disease is one that is always present in 
 in a particular population or region. Comes every  year, the severity is less and hits a small population.  Some of the most recognized endemic diseases include the flu, malaria, HIV, and syphilis. 
Let’s take flu as example.
Influenza, or the flu, is a respiratory illness caused by seasonal influenza viruses that spread throughout the population each year.  It is endemic but flu viruses generally mutate every year and new strains cause seasonal disease. Most people get mild symptoms and recover at home. Some with pre-existing conditions or may be the very young and old need extra precautions like flu shots . 
 
So will 2022 see Covid 19 becoming endemic. 
Dr Anoop Misra  Chairman FORTIS C DOC, says he “believes so “. He says vaccination and boosters also the immunity due to infections will cover most populations and ultimately the virus will not effect many. And ultimately lead to endemicity. 

Experts believe that the Covid-19 pandemic may follow a seasonal pattern, with cases proliferating during the winters and outbreaks of the disease becoming local. 
Eventually it will have to be treated as a public health challenge which needs to be met. 
What we have seen in the Omicron wave might be hint towards what future may look like. Many people will get infected, symptoms will be mild and paranoia  lesser.
However experts, still preach caution. The virus evolution is uncertain and vaccination cover for large populations is still important.
2022 may be the year that Covid 19 becomes endemic but caution is the key.