With the NBA trade deadline rapidly approaching, the clock is ticking louder and louder for the Lakers and the rest of the league to make moves before the final buzzer on Thursday, Feb. 10 at 12 p.m. PT. The Lakers have been mentioned in rumors across the league, but with very little in the way of valued, tradeable assets and many other teams still firmly in wait-and-see mode, reports and rumors have had the same central figures for the purple and gold.

Realistically, there are only three assets the Lakers have that they’re both comfortable parting with and also have value on the market, although how much value is up for debate: Talen Horton-Tucker, Kendrick Nunn and a 2027 first-round pick. That package has been shopped around the league throughout the weeks leading up to the deadline, and the fact all three are still on the Lakers gives an indication of their collective value.

Still, the Lakers remain persistent, and Lakers beat writers Jovan Buha and Bill Oram reported on Tuesday that the most likely scenario, if they’re dealt, is for a two-way player that can improve the team right away.

However, the relative value (or lack thereof) of that package, paired with a lack of available players, means that a move still isn’t a certainty.

The most likely outcome for the Lakers is that they stand pat with their current roster through Thursday’s deadline. But if they make a trade, it would likely be in the form of moving Horton-Tucker and/or Nunn for a more impactful two-way player, according to league sources.

The issue for the Lakers is finding players that fit the criteria. There aren’t many productive role players on midsized contracts available. The trade market for Horton-Tucker has also significantly cooled since last season, according to league sources.

Realistically, packaging a player who hasn’t played this season (Nunn), a prospect who has taken a major step backward this year (Horton-Tucker) and a first round pick nearly half a decade away from conveying (2027) probably won’t lead to a significant return, unless a team is either desperate to move a player, or really confident the Lakers will be bad in 2027.