Legends League Cricket Players’ Draft: Brett Lee, Muralitharan, Watson, Kallis top picks as teams utilise 32 Crores player purse

New Delhi: Four franchises — Adani Sportsline owned Gujarat Giants, GMR Sport’s India Capitals, Manipal Group’s Manipal Tigers, and Bhilwara Group’s Bhilwara Kings — came together with a combined purse of INR 32 crore to pick 59 stars from the players’ draft held virtually on Friday for the upcoming edition of the Legends League Cricket (LLC).

The players’ draft included 79 cricketers and each team had a purse of INR 8 crore each.

Each team will now have three more days to submit their final squad wherein they can buy more players with the available purse.

“Among the teams, Manipal Tigers splurged the most amount of INR 6,91,20,000 and have a remaining purse of 1,08,80,000. Tigers were followed closely by India Capitals as they spent INR 6,38,80,000 and Gujarat Giants who splurged INR 5,51,80,000 on their stars. Bhilwara Kings were the most economical as they spent INR 5,62,20,000. All of them have made judicious spend, the player mix seems great and it will be very interesting to see what each of them do now on the field. I wish everyone best of luck,” said Raman Raheja, CEO and Co-Founder Legends League Cricket

The teams had already selected their captains and were given a chance to choose one more player on their own accord.

Manipal Tigers named former Australian pace sensation Brett Lee in their squad while Gujarat went for their homegrown hero and former India wicket-keeper Parthiv Patel. India Capitals named Ravi Bopara even as Bhilwara Kings picked Yusuf Pathan, who will now get a chance to team up with his brother Irfan in the tournament.

Gujarat Giants, too, did their best to strike a nice balance in their team. Besides Patel, they have picked Sri Lanka’s mystery spinner Ajantha Mendis and former New Zealand captain and left-arm spinner Daniel Vettori. West Indies batter Lendl Simmons is likely to open with captain Virender Sehwag at the top while Mitchell McClenaghan will spearhead the pace bowling department.