Pakistan Prime Minister Imran Khan is scheduled to go on a two-day visit to Russia starting Wednesday. The Pakistan Foreign Office has said that Khan will visit Russia on Feb 23-24 “on the invitation” of Russian President Vladimir Putin. But some are already disputing it, saying that Khan invited himself. (https://tribune.com.pk/story/2344726/pm-imran-says-pakistan-will-not-play-camp-politics-calls-foreign-aid-a-curse)

He will be visiting Russia at a time when he claimed that Pakistan would not play “camp politics” on behalf of anyone side. But he has claimed that his visit would enhance trade relations between the two countries.

With a war-like situation looming with Russia and the West-backed Ukraine involved in a dangerous stand-off, what will Imran Khan achieve in this atmosphere is one question that many Pakistanis are asking. 
Some experts are also alleging that Khan could be taking up the exercise more for the domestic audiences rather than with any serious intent of brokering a peace deal or to strike economic deals with Russia.

Foreign policy analysts are not discounting the significance of the even as 
the first bilateral visit by a Pakistani prime minister to Russia will be happening nearly 23 years when former Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif. According to the Pakistan foreign office, Afghanistan and “Islamophobia” will also be discussed. 

Experts are also predicting that Khan will have nothing to offer to Russia in the present crisis and that he may have to go back again to multilateral forums seeking funds for Pakistan. And that it would be the U.S. which would decide on whether Pakistan will get the loans or not. (https://www.thenews.com.pk/print/933470-pm-s-visit-to-russia-ill-timed)

Khan, who is trying to bolster his image at home after heavy criticism because of very high inflation, hopes to establish himself as a leader that the world respects. That is too high an aim for Imran Khan.

Read more:

Reinvigorating relations:
https://www.dawn.com/news/1676372/pm-looking-to-reinvigorate-ties-during-russia-trip?preview

Is the visit, ill-timed?
https://www.aninews.in/news/world/asia/pakistan-pms-ill-timed-russia-visit-to-begin-from-wednesday20220222142439/