#2 The back four looked terrifyingly strong

Since players like Tony Adams, Martin Keown, and Sol Campbell retired, Arsenal's defense has seldom ever been solid. After this preseason, that can no longer be said.Against Chelsea, the back four of Ben White, William Saliba, Gabriel, and Oleksandr Zinchenko barely got out of first gear.Even though it's only the preseason, this is the time when moral practices and collaboration are created.

On Saturday night, Saliba was as self-assured as anybody. Many said that the Frenchman's performance before the Chelsea game was fraudulent because he hadn't faced any known quality opponents.White was adequate at right back, while Gabriel was as diligent as usual in keeping things organized and getting along well with Saliba. In his 45-minute cameo, Zinchenko demonstrated what he could do to the club.

#3 Arteta-ball has been on point

The goal this summer was to assemble a team with players that suited Mikel Arteta's system. Gabriel Jesus was the key objective of the summer and is ready to change the Arsenal assault for the upcoming campaign.While some argue that young players need to be given meaningful playing time, we have shown that it may also be important for integrating new players into the club. William Saliba, Gabriel Jesus, and Oleksandr Zinchenko have all fit in well.

We witnessed Arteta's vision at its most destructive against Chelsea. Jesus pushed like a madman from the front, followed by Gabriel Martinelli, Martin Odegaard, and Bukayo Saka. Chelsea had little time on the ball as a result, and William Saliba, Ben White, or Gabriel frequently caught long balls thrown downfield.

Last year, Arsenal struggled to score goals and win games at this time of year; this year, the opposite is true, and it is a sight to behold.Again, Mikel made excellent use of the US trip to get the guys he wanted into the club, give them playing experience, and show us what sort of team the Gunners may be in 2022–2023

(Image Credits: Twitter/Arsenal FC)