Salman Rushdie was a young student reading history at King’s College when he came across a curious tale from Islam’s early days that blurred the boundaries between God and Satan. Years later, Rushdie would title his fourth novel, The Satanic Verses, after the tale, which had long faded from the memories of most Muslim lay people.

Many Muslim clergy deemed the tale to which the title referred a heretical lie, and the novel blasphemous. But many centuries ago, the story of what came to be known as the Satanic Verses had been accepted by, or at least passed on by Muslim historians. The reaction to its re-emergence in Rushdie’s novel spoke volumes on how Muslim views had changed.

The account was known among Islamic scholars as the “Story of the Cranes” and by Orientalists later as the “Satanic Verses”. Many early Muslim scholars did not find it particularly controversial. It was an era when doctrine was still forming, and theological schools battled one another for supremacy.

While the basic tenets of the faith were there during Islam’s early days, much else was disputed. That the Prophet Mohammed was capable of a slip because he desired to save his tribe did not seem especially outlandish. He was both divinely inspired and very human, a man who laughed, cried and bled, an apostle of God who stood up in prayers so long that his feet would swell, yet loved women and perfume.

The early Muslim community of biographers and exegetes — a significant majority among them— transmitted and circulated the so-called Satanic Verses story without proffering anything to gainsay the purported event.

Dogma set in over the centuries, and with it an attempt to consistently define prophetic infallibility and the Koran's nature. Scholars began to view the story of the Satanic Verses as a heterodox fabrication that contradicted their views on the prophet’s infallibility.

When Rushdie’s novel was published in 1988, clerics and many Muslims would have regarded his irreverent treatment of Mohammed, and key aspects of Islam, as blasphemous. 

But the story remains a marker of how Muslims’ views of their faith have changed.