Spirituality has been proved in several studies to help persons with chronic conditions like cancer enhance their quality of life. Spirituality can improve the quality of life for heart failure patients, according to a literature review published today in Journal of the American College of Cardiology(JACC), Heart Failure. Spirituality could also be evaluated as a possible target for palliative care interventions to enhance patient-centered and clinical outcomes in these people, according to the study.

"Patients with heart failure have a worse quality of life than their peers, with significant levels of sadness, anxiety, and spiritual distress," stated Rachel S. Tobin, MD, principal author of the research and resident in Internal Medicine at Duke University Hospital."The fact that heart failure, unlike many other chronic diseases, is extremely unexpected and can lead to despondency, loneliness, and a change in self-image, contributes to a lower quality of life."

Palliative treatment is recommended for heart failure patients by the American College of Cardiology and other major cardiovascular associations. Spirituality is a key component of palliative care, with the purpose of recognising and resolving spiritual difficulties as well as connecting patients with spiritual and religious resources. However, little study has been done on the influence of spirituality on people with heart failure, and no instruments to quantify it have been developed.
"The fact that heart failure, unlike many other chronic diseases, is extremely unexpected and can lead to despondency, loneliness, and a change in self-image, contributes to a lower quality of life."

Palliative treatment is recommended for heart failure patients by the American College of Cardiology and other major cardiovascular associations. Spirituality is a key component of palliative care, with the purpose of recognising and resolving spiritual difficulties as well as connecting patients with spiritual and religious resources. However, little study has been done on the influence of spirituality on people with heart failure, and no instruments to quantify it have been developed.