Ironically, senior leader Ghulam Nabi Azad, the prime mover of the group of 23 dissidents who in a letter to Sonia Gandhi in August 2020 sought elections to the CWC, had in the past explained at length why the polls to the party's highest decision making body cannot and should not be held. 

At the 84th plenary in Delhi in March 2018, he even claimed that in the history of the Congress party, the elections to the CWC had been held only about a dozen times. 

Azad and other seniors had only dissuaded Sonia Gandhi from discontinuing the practice, arguing that the nomination culture would strengthen the high command's grip over the party. 

That said, the Congress has not been able to counter the super efficient election machinery of the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP). By now, the entire country knows that Prime Minister Narendra Modi and his lieutenant Amit Shah are 24x7 politicians and Rahul Gandhi is dismissed as a leader who is unwilling to take responsibility. It may be an image created by his rivals but the Gandhi scion too hasn't done anything to prove his detractors wrong. He hasn't been able to inspire confidence among the Congress leaders and workers across the country or for that matter the voters, especially the aspirational youth. 

After the 2014 Lok Sabha elections, the grand old party has failed to stem the electoral slide. 

At the CWC meeting, disgruntled veteran Ghulam Nabi Azad said the Congress has lost 39 of the 49 elections after 2014. That's a big number. 

One of the factors responsible for this slide is the disconnect between the Congress leadership and the workers. 

Though Rahul Gandhi has been a strong votary of communication between the leaders and the workers, that dialogue has ceased to exist in the grand old party. Former Prime Minister Indira Gandhi would hold 'Janata darbars' every week to interact with the leaders, workers and the common people to understand and address their problems. 

Sonia Gandhi had a strong communication network in the form of master strategist Ahmed Patel and his death has left a void in that respect. 