QNB Group, the official supporter of the FIFA World Cup 2022 in the Middle East and Africa, has successfully concluded its mall campaign, which was organised in partnership with Visa, the official payment services partner of FIFA.
The campaign was held every weekend at Doha Festival City and Villaggio Mall from September 2-24, allowing QNB Visa credit cardholders, along with their families and friends to enjoy fun games and win exciting prizes instantly, thanks to Visa.
During the campaign period, customers who spent at least QR500 won FIFA branded merchandise; and 56 FIFA World Cup Qatar 2022 match ticket packages for two were offered to winners, including group stage matches, round of 16 matches, quarterfinal matches and final match tickets, thanks to Visa.
Adel Al Malki, QNB General Manager Group Retail Banking said: “We are delighted to have partnered with Visa to bring our customers the excitement and euphoria of the FIFA World Cup Qatar 2022 through our in-mall activation, for which we have received so much positive feedback from our customers.  QNB is a leader and involved in the run up to the most exciting football tournament in the world, and through our long-term strategic partnership with Visa, we will keep providing our customers with the best products, benefits and services before, during, and after the tournament”.
Dr. Sudheer Nair, Visa’s Country Manager for Qatar said: “With less than two months to kick-off, Visa is thrilled to have been able to extend this exciting promotion with QNB. Now more of our cardholders in Qatar have a chance to create memorable moments at the FIFA World Cup Qatar 2022. It is also a great way to bring the benefits of digital commerce to more consumers and support the government’s efforts to prepare the country to host FIFA World Cup Qatar 2022”.
QNB Group, currently ranked as the most valuable bank brand in the Middle East and Africa, is proud to be the Official Middle East and Africa Supporter of the FIFA World Cup 2022.
Through its subsidiaries and associate companies, the Group extends to more than 30 countries across three continents providing a comprehensive range of advanced products and services. 
