Trying to loose weight through healthy diets is itself a difficult process and having a condition of Polycystic Ovarian Syndrome (PCOS) it just gets more difficult. PCOS, a lifestyle disease, during these years it have become more common condition among women. 

Patients who suffer with this condition is due to the improper function of the ovaries. There is a disruption that occurs during the secretion of hormones like estrogen and progesterone. This leads to the rise of testosterone levels over the required amount causing several unwarranted changes in the body. People experience excessive growth of facial hair, acne and difficulty in keeping the weight in check. 

With an intense work out session the weight loss process still doesn't progress, the reason behind this is due to factors like insulin resistance by the body in the changed fluctuations of the hormone. 

So how do one lose weight with PCOS? 

If you have PCOS and are looking to shed some extra kilos, the first thing to keep in mind is a healthy diet. Regulating the food intake, especially the food items consumed in breakfast can help the weight loss process. 

A heavy breakfast is preferred among health enthusiasts, as the first meal of the body gives your body the required energy to get through the day. But having a heavy breakfast should not mean that you keep no check on what you consume, especially if you have PCOS. In such a case, you should make sure to include as many low carb food items in your breakfast as you can. 

Low carb items like oatmeal, bananas, and whole wheat bread will source energy to your body while aiding the management of PCOS of your body. These foods have a low glycemic index which causes the release of energy slower than other fatty items and in turn, keep the hormonal imbalance in check. 

Coupled with an exercise routine, this little change in diet can allow your body to tackle the hormonal imbalance of your body in PCOS and aid the weight loss efforts. 

Read more - https://www.news18.com/amp/news/lifestyle/how-low-carb-breakfast-can-do-wonders-for-weight-loss-even-with-pcos-4806137.html