Parliament’s “Afghan Women Days” will kick off with a high-level conference on 1 February. This event will gather MEPs, prominent Afghan women who were finalists for Parliament’s 2021 Sakharov Prize, Commission and United Nations representatives as well as representatives of other international organisations, to address and cast light on the extremely worrying situation for women in Afghanistan following the Taliban’s return to power last year. Parliament’s “Afghan Women Days” will kick off with a high-level conference on 1 February. This event will gather MEPs, prominent Afghan women who were finalists for Parliament’s 2021 Sakharov Prize, Commission and United Nations representatives as well as representatives of other international organisations, to address and cast light on the extremely worrying situation for women in Afghanistan following the Taliban’s return to power last year.
WHEN: Tuesday 1 February (high level conference and side events) and Wednesday 2 February 2022 (side events).
WHERE: Parliament’s hemicycle in Brussels and room 3G3 in the Spinelli building. More information on other venues is available in the programme linked below.
The conference will feature interventions by Parliament President Roberta Metsola, former Afghan Minister of Women’s Affairs Sima Samar, Angelina Jolie, Special Envoy to the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR - recorded message) and UN Deputy Secretary-General Amina Mohammed (recorded message). It will be concluded with an address and musical appearance by Afghan singer and songwriter Aryana Sayeed, with her song “Lady of the Land of Fire”.
“Afghan Women Days”: several workshops and side events
In addition to the conference, there will be a series of workshops organised on Tuesday and Wednesday with a broad range of participants to discuss specific issues related to Afghanistan, such as future perspectives for women in the country, and how to support women activists in exile and women parliamentarians. The “Afghan Women Days” will also feature an event with testimonies coming from Afghanistan, the screening of “Hava, Maryam, Ayesha”, by Afghan film-maker Sahraa Karimi, and a youth seminar.