The sensational yet unsurprising departure of Pierre Emerick Aubameyang from Arsenal to Barcelona have divided the Gunners fans yet another time. The club’s captain, the highest earner and currently the most popular player, joined Barca on the transfer deadline day on a free transfer, having endured a difficult time after falling out with manager Mikel Arteta. The Gabon international had scored a whopping 92 goals in 163 games for Arsenal before being frozen out by Arteta allegedly for breaching discipline and out of form after signing a lucrative contract extension. Section of fans believes that Arteta has failed to handle the situation as a repetition of the Mesut Ozil saga where the German had the worst of his career before moving to Turkish outfit Fenerbahce. 

How did the transfer happen?

Aubameyang chartered a private aircraft to fly to Barcelona, where he has a home, and the Catalan club had arranged for him to undergo medical examinations in anticipation of the move. However, around 6 p.m., it became clear that the transfer would not occur, as the two teams’ financial disparities were too big. The wage gap between Barcelona and Arsenal was so vast that the deal seemed unlikely to go through, at least at the outset of the negotiations.

Barcelona needed to pay Auba’s salaries, and he was willing to accept whatever amount. The Gunners then agreed to a free transfer from the opposing team. That means that the player may only receive 2 million euros this season instead of the approximately 9 million euros he was promised at Arsenal. However the move gives much needed relief for the former Borussia Dortmund attacker, who was first stripped of the captaincy then ostracised from Arsenal’s first-team squad. It is surprising and quite telling about Arsenal’s mistreatment of their once prolific striker as they didn’t even wish him a formal good bye even through their social media. It proves the words of Emmanuel Adebayor, who blasted the club for the ill-treatment of Auba, citing the episode from his own time at North London when he was forced out of the club during Arsene Wenger’s regime.