By Shivaji Dasgupta

Even if you were too young for B R Chopra's racy thriller 'The Burning Train', circa 1980, you are surely old enough to witness the many sequels from 2022. A pesky pattern in the recent protests has been the fiery assault on trains, causing damage to both sanity and the exchequer. 

Truthfully, Indians have always enjoyed a love-hate relationship with the Railways, as if an indispensable yet controversial member of a joint family. For most, it is still the primary lifeline, this stature unshaken by both the friendly skies and the moody Golden Quadrilateral. We are guarded in appreciation when the rakes perform while trigger happy in fury, when delays demolish our precious plans. Quite remarkably, we quickly forgive the institution's mammoth contribution towards demographic attrition, the fatal train accident sadly not just a cinemascope demonstration. 

But to truly understand why we love damaging trains, it is useful to assess our uniquely native sense of entitlement. Whether rich or poor, tax-paying or evading, Indians believe that properties of the state are meant for abuse, as much as use. Perhaps it is an understated vigilante outpouring against reluctant politicians and an insufficient public service culture or perhaps simply just the way we are, genetically uncivil in public conduct. Which is why parks are routinely vandalized, garbage is destined for the footpaths, toilets take moments to resemble battlefields, and engraving love homilies on historical architecture is a nagging youth obsession. 

The train represents the might of the state in gigantic glory, a nation within a nation possessing a set of compelling codes, and until recently, even a dedicated Budget. To drive home the administrative metaphor, it is capable of amazing alacrity and can, as easily, slip to shoddy slumber, and has loving space for every socio-economic denomination, best defined by the meticulous Class System. Where we can select our desired rides, as per ability or inevitability, but clearly under the auspices of a common engine, thus unifying destinies on the most basic parameters

Read the full story here:- https://www.newsdrum.in/analysis/trains-why-do-we-burn-the-trains-we-love-49235.html