Who will challenge PM Modi in 2024 depends on UP voters continues.....

Also, the opposition's strategists concede that the advantages enjoyed by the BJP far exceeds the factors benefiting the resurrection of the Samajwadi Party (SP).

In 2017, the BJP and its allies won 222 seats by margins of over 10 percentage points. Out of these 93 were won by margins of over 20 points and 129 by margins between 10-20 percentage points. Only 103 seats were won by margins of under 10 percentage points. So even if the SP manages to retain all the 47 seats it won in 2017 and wins these 103 seats, it would still be below the half-way mark.

Of course, Akhilesh Yadav's social coalition in the 2022 elections has given a big thrust to the SP's chances in the western UP as well as in Purvanchal. The SP-RLD alliance may have succeeded in winning over a sizeable Jat votes from the BJP as well as the Muslim votes, ending the rift between the two communities since 2013 communal riots. But the BJP could still keep to itself the support of numerous non-Yadav OBCs across the state.

By acknowledging the importance of Mayawati-led Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) among the Jatav and Muslim voters, the BJP is also hoping that its support base remains unchanged-- though the average Muslim voter is known to back a party that he or she sees as the most competent to defeat the BJP.

The elections in UP (as also in Uttarakhand, Punjab, Goa and Manipur)  will also indicate the extent of the impact of the livelihood issues like lack of jobs, which has potential to damage the prospects of the BJP because its rivals have gone for an overdrive offering freebies.

Can Modi's charm and Yogi's appeal  negate this important factor? Barring Punjab where the BJP does not nurture any hope of a great performance, Goa and Manipur are not seen as very challenging for Modi and his team to retain power.

Full article: https://www.newsdrum.in/editorial/assembly-elections-2022-who-will-challenge-pm-modi-in-2024-depends-on-up-voters-291.html