By Shekhar Iyer

New Delhi: When Prime Minister Narendra Modi hit the bullseye on corruption in his Independence Day address, he predictably raised fears among the Opposition leaders.

They sense that the current drive by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) and the Enforcement Directorate (ED) would quadruple to fix some of them in the run-up to the next round of assembly elections in the next two years as well as the Lok Sabha polls of 2024.

However, by setting up a benchmark and seeking public endorsement for action against the sleaze in high places, Modi would have also put on notice some suspected black sheep among his party members.

Every time, the CBI or the ED have unearthed what might be construed as evidence of wrongdoing by a leader of the Congress, Nationalist Congress Party, Trinamool Congress, or the Rashtriya Janata Dal, the Opposition has hit back with a standard reaction.

"How come only the Opposition leaders are targeted? What about the ruling party leaders and their kith and kin?"

Modi considers his record of eight years in office as a scam-free era during which his government has come out with policies and initiatives that are transparent and beyond judicial reproach.

Some decisions like the urgent purchase of the multi-crore Rafale fighter aircraft even went through scrutiny of the Supreme Court, which gave a clean chit. This punctured Congress leader Rahul Gandhi's smear campaign against the PM. As a result of which the Lok Sabha polls of 2019 ended up endorsing the public perception of Modi's image as a leader who is "incorruptible."

Nevertheless, the Opposition has relentlessly accused that though Modi may appear to be "corruption-free," he has promoted his corporate friends or "dostivaad."  Modi has chosen not to respond to such insinuation, leaving the field open for any interpretation.

In the years he has been in office, Modi has, however, never minced words about his worst fears. 

Read more https://www.newsdrum.in/columns/will-modis-bullseye-on-corruption-hit-bjp-black-sheep-as-much-as-the-opposition-76186.html