When You call them a BJP B-Team - they wince, their actions more anti-Congress than anti-BJP but their patterns alike. The TMC in Goa is now doing exactly what Goa Forward Party (GFP) had been doing for the past year and a half – attacking Congress first by humiliation and thereafter by coercion to force an alliance. TMC which till other day was attacking GFP for betrayal (they didn’t merge their party into theirs) even tweaked the GFP tweet calling for a grand coalition which again - I showed you (shorturl.at/rtESY). The fact that GFP allied with BJP before its conscience call for Congress alliance makes things more suspicious.

For both GFP and now TMC, despite their bravado, a Congress Alliance is all about an existential crisis.

Exactly a year ago, GFP had announced that it would be contesting on 12 seats (shorturl.at/dkqI2), by the middle of the year its Supremo Vijai Sardesai was begging for an alliance yet shaking hands with BJP (shorturl.at/jmuCG) and by the end of the year almost threatening an alliance (shorturl.at/bmE09).

TMC too started on a similar pattern. On its relaunch in Goa in October it claimed to be fighting on all seats (shorturl.at/erABO) then it allied with BJP’s former cousin MGP (shorturl.at/vCEM3), sought a grand alliance (shorturl.at/juzAF) but in the rich traditions of Prashant Kishor and Mamata Banerjee who don’t take no for an answer – went back to attacking Congress (shorturl.at/lmA67).

TMC’s Goa in-charge Mahua Moitra’s renewed attack to an INC’s Goa Election in-charge P Chidambaram interview on a local cable TV news channel was a tweet that TMC had sent a proposal to Congress a couple of weeks ago. But then Congress’ General Secretary K C Venugopal had made it quite clear five days ago that there was no discussion on alliance with TMC with regards Goa (shorturl.at/cdAPQ), so what is the truth.

Both TMC and GFP follow a BJP-style parallel campaign in Goa of misleading people through whisper campaigns and WhatsApp forwards. Sensing that their efforts to ‘replace’ Congress is crystalising opinion in favour of INC, this desperate bid to force alliance and be on the winning side.