International Community in
Afghanistan continues .....

The construction of a multinational force continued. In a remarkable development, considering its constitutional limitations on thegeographical deployment of its soldiers and the Green Party’s ideological opposition to military operations, the German government agreed on 6 November to an American request for almost 4,000 German soldiers. 

A day later the Italian parliament accepted a similar request, assigning 2,700 troops, and on 8 November Jordan’s King Abdullah gave verbal backing to the war. Musharraf, however, stated that the war needed to be short and that bombing should cease during the approaching Muslim holy month of Ramadan, which the US did not honour, but it increased humanitarian air drops. Musharraf’s government also requested that the Taleban withdraw its diplomats from Karachi, although the final Taleban representation would only be asked to leave Pakistan on 22 November. In broader diplomacy, the UN’s special envoy indicated plans for a provisional Afghan government that would contain various representations from the population, including potentially parts of the Taleban, and that would be assisted by an international peacekeeping force. 

At the beginning of November reports declared 
the bombing was ‘way behind schedule,’ that coming snow would complicate the war and give the Taleban advantage and that people were beginning to starve in some provinces.

The New York Times wrote that the Bush administration had ‘underestimated the Taleban’s resistance’ and that Afghanistan was ‘an especially difficult battlefield.

In a major military breakthrough in Afghanistan the Northern Alliance captured Mazar-i-Sharif on 9 November; two days later it claimed half of the country, and approached Kabul. On 13 November Northern Alliance troops entered capital Kabul. This may have been a remarkable military achievement, but its timing was unanticipated. 

Indeed, Bush had requested the Northeren Alliance not to enter Kabul until a provisional government was established. UN representative for Afghanistan, former Algerian Foreign Minister Lakhdar Brahimi, rushed fo assemble Afghan leaders for discussions

To be continued...