I dont have to depend on loose translation of Quran to make my point. I agree that 
semantic shifts are usually the result of incorrect translations and interpretations and socio-cultural factors, which aimed at one point in history to create "made-to-measure" concepts to serve the political interests. 

Precisely, this is what happened with Hijab when it was imposed on Muslim women by inserting it willingly in the register of Islamic body ethics. Please dont blame Quaran here! 

When we go back to the origin of the term Hijab, which means to "hide" or "separate", and notice the changing process that it has undergone to bear the name "scarf", we have the right to wonder if this concept was given this double meaning to religiously justify the isolation of Muslim women.

The "Hijab" was imposed on Muslim women as a way of "separation" in order to show them their place in society, and exclude them, in the name of Islam, from the socio-political sphere. Thus, replacing the Khimar with Hijab means to confuse different and opposing semantic and conceptual fields in order to endorse, in the name of Islam, the exclusion of women from the sociopolitical space behind a curtain!

Indeed, to substitute the Khimar with the Hijab is to confuse two different registers. While Khimar remains, according to the Qur’anic vision, a sign of women’s social visibility, Hijab undoubtedly symbolizes their relegation to the private space.

In fact, the first Muslim women put on the Khimar as part of the Qur’anic message of liberation and a symbol of dignity. This global vision and the holistic approach of the spiritual message of the Qur'an are important and even essential to understand the deep meaning of these verses.

It is not the Khimar -that existed before revelation- which is important, but rather its new meaning and the context in which it was revealed. The Khimar, according to its original meaning of women's liberation and as a symbol of their participation along with men in the socio-political space, was therefore gradually replaced by the other Qur'anic concept of Hijab to prevent women from participating in the social field.
Based on 
http://www.asma-lamrabet.com/articles/how-does-the-qur-an-address-the-issue-of-muslim-woman-s-veil-or-hijab/