As the tech company gears up to introduce a new lineup of products next month, Apple staff will resume working three days per week starting on September 5.

Employees will work three days per week, with Tuesday and Thursday being the company's established days, according to an internal communication from Apple CEO Tim Cook.

"The third day that you come in, however, will now be decided by your teams. Each team will decide which day is best for them after considering all the options, and you'll hear from your leaders soon "He composed.

Many workers will once again have the choice of working remotely two days per week.

You may also choose to work remotely for up to four weeks a year, depending on your function, added Cook.

Apple first introduced the hybrid work style in June 2021, and now, after numerous setbacks caused by Covid waves, the tech giant is finally implementing it, beginning with Bay Area offices.

In a memo to staff, Apple SVP of software engineering Craig Federighi stated that after years of uncertainty (and a few false starts), it is finally happening.

The official start of our hybrid work project in the Santa Clara Valley is the week of September 5, and Federighi commented, "I personally can't wait to experience the amazing vibe of having all of us back in the office together again."

Resumption dates may change for all other areas depending on the state of Covid-19 globally at the time.

You can anticipate site-specific notifications from the Covid-19 Response Team with timing information for your location in the near future, he said.

The early ramp-in phase of the hybrid work project, according to Cook, has provided a wonderful chance for team building and face-to-face interactions with new colleagues.

"You will receive more information shortly. In terms of timing, many places throughout the world are in different phases. We intend to start our new adjusted pilot for Santa Clara Valley with all staff present three days a week starting the week of September 5th "said he.