With berries, veggies, fish, whole grains and rapeseed oil, they are the main ingredients that are involved in the Nordic diet, which is considered as extremely healthy, tasty and sustainable. With this diet prevention of obesity and lowering the chance of cardiovascular disease,  type 2 diabetes, high blood pressure and high cholesterol. 

Till date, Rheumatology diet research have been primarily linked with diets positive health effect which also results in weight loss. A new study by researchers from University of Copenhagen makes it clear that the Nordic diet provides positive health benefits, diet if one loses weight or not. 


Lars Ove Dragsted, a researcher and head of section at the University of Copenhagen's Department of Nutrition, Exercise and Sports explains that "It's surprising because most people believe that positive effects on blood sugar and cholesterol are solely due to weight loss. Here, we have found this not to be the the case. Other mechanisms are also at play,". 

Together with researchers from Finland, Norway, Sweden and Iceland, Dragsted examined blood and urine samples from 200 people over the age of 50, all with elevated BMI and increased risk of diabetes and cardiovascular disease. The participants were divided into two groups -- one provided foods according to Nordic dietary recommendations and a control group on their habitual diet. After six months of monitoring, the result was clear. 

"The group that had been on the Nordic diet for six months became significantly healthier, with lower cholesterol levels, lower overall levels of both saturated and unsaturated fat in the blood, and better regulation of glucose, compared to the control group. We kept the group on the Nordic diet weight stable, meaning that we asked them to eat more if they lost weight. Even without weight loss, we could see an improvement in their health," explains Lars Ove Dragsted. 

The fat makes us healthy 

Instead of weight loss alone, the researchers point to the unique composition of fats in a Nordic diet as a possible explanation for the significant health benefits. 

Read more - https://www.sciencedaily.com/releases/2022/03/220308102754.htm