With the weekend approaching, we've got a stacked lineup of things to get stuck into in Melbourne, from the return of the Great Australiasian Beer Spectacular, a banging sanga collab happening at HiFi in Collingwood, to a Nicholas Cage film retrospective happening at Pentridge Cinema.

1. Nicolas Cage At Palace Encore

Join the cult of Cage this month at Palace Encore Cinema. In honour of his latest film ‘The Unbearable Weight of Massive Talent’, Palace Encore holding a retrospective festival and diving into Nicholas Cage's best works. The festival shows off his discography, from academy award-winning ‘Leaving Las Vegas’ to the unhinged ‘Vampires Kiss’. 

THE DETAILS: 

When: Various times, Thursday 14 April until Friday 8 July
Where: Pentridge Cinema, 1 Champ Street, Coburg


2. Rocky Road Festival Of Flavours

Everyone loves a niche festival, but one that Victorians have always gotten behind is the Rocky Road Festival of Flavours. Yarra Valley Choclaterie and Ice-creamery’s month-long chocolate celebration is drawing to a close. There are plenty of treats to choose from, like the create-your-own 1kg block, a pick and mix four-pack or the ultimate 31 flavour exploration which includes flavours like espresso martini, Golden Gaytime and salted caramel.

THE DETAILS: 

When: 9am until 5pm, until Tuesday 31 May
Where: Yarra Valley Chocolaterie and Ice Creamery, 35 Old Healesville Road, Yarra Glen

3. The Great Australasian Beer Spectacular

Calling all craft beer connoisseurs, The Great Australasian Beer Spectacular is touching down in Melbourne. With over 100 unique speciality brews on offer, explore the Royal Exhibition Building's sprawling hall and sip frothy beverages from Bridge Road Brewers, Co-Conspirators, Deeds Brewing, Little Creatures, Molly Rose Brewing Co and dozens more. If a cheeky pint isn’t to your liking, there’s plenty of supporting wine, gin and whisky to go around.

THE DETAILS: 

When: Various times, Friday 27 May until Sunday 29 May
Where: Royal Exhibition Building, 9 Nicholson Street, Carlton