In the months after landowner Adrian McMaster moved a 60-metre stretch of volcanic stones near the eel-rich waters of Lake Bolac that many believe was arranged there by the Djab Wurrung people about 1500 years ago, he commissioned a report.

Emotions were running high when national media descended on his farm in western Victoria last April. People were calling for McMaster to be prosecuted, labelling his actions a “desecration” akin to dismantling Stonehenge. Aboriginal Victoria arrived and launched an investigation which is still ongoing.

The report McMaster commissioned disputes the long-held belief that the Kooyang (meaning eel) stone arrangement is a sacred site.

It was actually, the report says, a sheepfold or pen, dragged into place by agricultural machinery. It included photos it claimed showed the boulders moved by McMaster were put in place by workers before 1880.

His family’s connection to the region goes back to the 1860s. McMaster took over caring for the property after his father passed away four years ago.

Traditional owners reacted with shock, anger and sadness when they heard the basalt rocks that formed the tail of the 176-metre-long, eel-shaped monument had been moved to poison an infestation of thistles.

The report was filed as part of a defamation case lodged in early April by McMaster against local musician Neil Murray, who was the first to detect the disturbance of the rocks when he drove past last year and posted about it on Facebook. It is also being brought against journalist Caleb Cluff, who broke the story for Ballarat’s The Courier, and the regional newspaper’s subsidiaries that published Cluff’s work quoting Murray.

Compiled by lawyer Alan Flint and commissioned by McMaster, Sheep Fold or Stone Alignment? – An Investigation into the Aboriginal Heritage Classification of the Lake Bolac ‘Ceremonial Stone Arrangement’ argues a 1980 Victorian archaeological survey that identified two “previously unrecorded” Aboriginal stone alignment sites was mistaken.

It claims there is no “direct historical evidence” the site is ceremonial, that the authors’ findings were “fanciful” and there was “clear evidence of European construction”

Read the full story here:- https://www.theage.com.au/national/victoria/sacred-ground-dispute-over-aboriginal-landmark-pits-landowner-against-journalist-musician-20220414-p5adfo.html