By Tanzila Shaikh 

Creativity doesn’t follow a textbook approach. There’s no curriculum which can help one write a campaign, a jingle or a copy. 

The art of copywriting is as real as it can get. Even if the art cannot be taught, there are some processes that can help copywriters realise their full potential and create impactful copies and campaigns. 

Speaking about what goes into becoming a copywriter, Prasoon Joshi, CEO of McCann World Group India and APAC Chairman, said, “It's a misnomer that you can instantly write anything. There is nothing called instant. The most important thing is the brewing of thought. What we don't see is how much time it takes to understand the craft. It's a continuation of a process.”

Bobby Pawar, Chairman and Chief Creative Officer at Havas Group, said, “Copywriting is one of the hardest jobs in advertising. When people talk about copywriting, writing is the last thing that you do. It's thinking about what you do. You have a thought and you have an insight and then you try to express it in a manner that is going to grab attention.”

“You can spend a lifetime learning copywriting but still not know many things that are there,” he added.

According to Ajay Gahlaut, Group CCO, Dentsu Creative India, “Copywriters need to see things slightly different from other people. Their vision should startle audiences. It should grab audience attention and persuade them. To do so, one needs a little different worldview than most people. And that is rarer than people think it is. Not everyone can be a copywriter. It needs a certain God-given talent, to begin with. A good copywriter looks at things the consumers’ way. The consumer doesn’t care about any huge company. They care about what's in it for them. And that is the copy. The writer will be able to appeal to that and sell the product.”

Writing a copy that touches hearts is a tedious as well as an exciting job. Haque recalled a piece of work by ad veteran Piyush Pandey, ‘Har Ghar Kuch Kehta hai’ an iconic ad for Asian Paints. 

Read more
https://bestmediainfo.com/2022/07/the-art-of-copywriting-what-makes-an-impactful-ad-co