In a much-awaited battle of two contrasting styles, Manchester City came up trumps against Atletico Madrid in a match that had chances come at a premium. Pep Guardiola finally got one over the team that somehow always provoked his doubts.

Before the match, it was clear that Atletico Madrid would sit back and cede the ball to their opponents, and that was exactly how the first half panned out. City had the ball and tried to make something out of it, but for some reason, they were just not able to find the right ball. Such was the intensity and the compact nature of the Atletico defence, that the blues were reduced to taking potshots from distance or were putting in crosses that were far too easy for Oblak. While Atletico did not have a single shot on target, they did not put a foot wrong in defence, with Felipe in particular alert to every possible danger.

The second half opened up the game a little, and against the run of play, it was Atletico who had the opening salvo, with Joao Felix making a slaloming run at the city defence, only to run out of room. Almost immediately, Atletico sprung to life, with Marcos Llorente giving the City defence a tough time. Griezmann almost capitalised on a mistake from Gundogan, who needlessly gave away the ball, only for the Frenchman to skew the resulting pass horribly wide.

Simeone decided to throw the dice by making a triple change, bringing in Correa, Cunha, and De Paul. Pep also concurred that he had enough. On came Grealish, Foden, and Gabriel Jesus. The game was set for a grandstand finish.

The changes were not seeming to work, with Atletico's wall of ten proving to be seemingly insurmountable. But just when it was looking like City were running out of ideas, Foden unlocked the defence with a gorgeous ball, and De Bruyne did the rest, stabbing the ball in at the far post, sending the home fans into raptures.

With City in the midst of a key week, this win makes them favorites in the second leg at the Metropolitano next week.