Aurelien Tchouameni
Tchouameni has developed into a coherent and consistent midfielder and his upsurge from Monaco has seen many clubs lining up for the French guy, the  giant has pretty much made his impact in Real Madrid and now plays a key role as defensive midfielder under Carlo Ancelotti, he is now the regular player and has let fans forget Casemiro because he has been that good for Real.
The player has a long road ahead of him, and if he remains humble, he will undoubtedly become the next football prodigy.
 
 
Right wing- Phil Foden
However, while Foden is classified as a midfielder, he primarily plays on the flanks and is the club's most persuasive player. He has already proven his worth on the field by being named Premier League player of the month, and he is flourishing under Pep Guardiola. He is fortunate to be accompanied by the best player, which provides him with rich experience.
And the 22-year-old has not squandered those opportunities, and he is now the team's most valuable player, capable of taking the game in his head. His hat-trick against Manchester United says everything.
 
Left wing- Kylian Mbappe
Mbappe does not need to be considered the best player in football because he has already made a name for himself. At the age of 19, he won the World Cup and broke records by scoring in the final. He is also PSG's third leading scorer and has already established himself in football.
Mbappe has broken numerous records and will be hoping to maintain his excellent form so that his name appears on the Ballon d'Or and other prestigious awards.
Striker- Erling Haaland
Haaland, like Mbappe, has climbed the up the ranks and is rife in the Premier League. He is a brutal striker who has broken numerous records and appears to be on track to surpass the two greatest of all time, Messi and Ronaldo. However, consistency is essential,  if Haaland holds it, he will be unstoppable.
Time will tell how the player maintains his goal-scoring prowess. But, for the time being, he is one of the players to keep an eye on.