By Shivji Dasgupta
Kolkata: Not all political articles need to be bloodthirsty, so do take the tidings lightly. Truth be told, the headline is a fairly simple equation of a reasonably complex alliance 
Those taking time off from the Royal Funeral would have noted that the CM of West Bengal has publicly offered an olive branch to the PM of India. She said most gracefully that the aggression of the Central agencies towards close party colleagues was clearly not perpetrated by Mr. Modi, suggesting the handiwork of ill-advised underlings. This declaration coincides sufficiently with a number of concurrent developments - the Rs15,000 crore Tajpur Port investment by the Adanis and the scathing indictment of the Education scam accused.
In Tajpur, the potential is immense and the prospect of 25,000 jobs combining economic sustenance with vote bank happiness certainly juicy. Those living in the state, unconnected to politics, will be salivating at the prospect of a genuine scalable investment, accountable to the Centre. The last time a possibility as such occurred was the Tata Motors mirage of Singur, and the interim promises have been short lived. 
On the Education scam, a thesis like chargesheet has been issued and the desired suspect will soon be singing like a canary, as alternate escape avenues are sincerely sealed. A few others are being invited to the dragnet,their vulnerabilities exposed with startling alacrity and that too with defensible evidence. Every political party has their share of avoidable outliers and this is a huge opportunity for the TMC to conduct a Stalinist purge, albeit in a constitutional fashion. 
But the larger agenda resides with the tax paying public, devastated by Communist rule and confused by the TMC agendas, interested only in socio-economic upliftment and a correction of professional perception. The party manifesto is surely valuable but not a patch on personal benefits, and in spite of the visibly demographic excesses in rallies, that truth is still intact. 
Read more: https://www.newsdrum.in/analysis/modi-didi-adani-ed-92331.html