Montenegro and Romania will get the ball rolling in Group B3 of the UEFA Nations League when they lock horns at the Podgorica City Stadium on Saturday.

Montenegro won their most recent match on March 28 when they defeated Greece 1-0 at home.Prior to it, they had gone on a four-game losing streak, with three losses and one tie.Montenegro is unbeaten in all but one of their last four home games, with the exception of a 2-1 setback to Turkey in November 2021.

On the other side, Israel held Romania to a 2-2 draw in a thrilling friendly match on March 29.This came after a 1-0 loss to Greece on home soil, ending their three-game unbeaten streak.Romania will now try to avenge their World Cup qualification humiliation, when they narrowly lost out on a playoff spot in Group J by one point.

Montenegro vs Romania: Probable Playing XI

Montenegro: Danijel Petković; Marko Vesovic, Zarko Tomasevic, Igor Vujacic, Risto Radunovic; Adam Marusic, Marko Janković, Sead Hakšabanović, Vladimir Jovović; Stefan Mugoša, Stevan Jovetic

Romania:Florin Nita; Cristian Manea, Vlad Chiriches, Adrian Rus, Nicușor Bancu; Razvan Marin, Alexandru Cicâldău; Valentin Mihăilă, Alexandru Maxim, George Pușcaș; Denis Alibec

Montenegro vs Romania: Prediction

Having lost just one of their last four outings on home soil, Montenegro will not be easy to break down on Saturday - particularly for a Romania side which does not always deliver in the final third.

As both teams will be back in action in midweek, starting out with a point apiece would represent an acceptable result for either nation, and a low-scoring draw could be on the cards.

Prediction: Montenegro 1-1 Romania

Montenegro vs Romania: Telecast and Live Stream

Premier Sports 1 will broadcast the event, with coverage commencing at 7.35 p.m. BST ahead of a 7.45 p.m. kick-off. In the United Kingdom, a monthly membership starts at £9.99.

Premier Sports subscribers will be able to watch the game live on mobile and tablet devices via the Premier Player app.