Music festivals are important cultural and economic events. They have become symbols of the British summertime.
However, festival spaces are not equal spaces. Festival lineups remain dominated by men, and female festivalgoers are also not free to enjoy festivals in the same way as men. In 2018 a poll conducted by YouGov found that over 40% of women under 40 reported being sexually harassed or assaulted.
Together with colleagues, I began a research project in 2018 to explore sexual violence at UK festivals. The first part of our study – a survey of 450 festivalgoers – reinforced the findings of the YouGov poll.
We found that 34% of female respondents reported being sexually harassed or assaulted at a festival in the previous few years, compared with 6% of men. In our study, 9% of women and 1% of men reported being sexually assaulted.
We wanted to explore these experiences and their impact in more detail. We interviewed 13 female festivalgoers aged between 18 and 40 who had been sexually harassed or assaulted at a festival in the previous two years. This included being catcalled and leered at, having a hand put up their dress or skirt, and being rubbed against or groped. It also included penetrative assault.
Quarter life, a series by The Conversation
This article is part of Quarter Life, a series about issues affecting those of us in our twenties and thirties. From the challenges of beginning a career and taking care of our mental health, to the excitement of starting a family, adopting a pet or just making friends as an adult. The articles in this series explore the questions and bring answers as we navigate this turbulent period of life.
You may be interested in:
Hope from despair: how young people are taking action to make things better
The impact of Christian purity culture is still being felt – including in Britain
Four ways you can design social media posts to combat health misinformation
Read more: https://theconversation.com/festivals-must-do-more-to-address-sexual-violence-189188