Today is the auspicious day for all the fans of Real Madrid as they are celebrating 120th anniversary of the Club. So today I will share the historic facts about the Real Madrid.
1. On 6th March 1902,after a new Board presided by Juan Padros has been elected, Madrid Football Club was officially announced.
2. In 1905, Real Madrid won their first trophy after defeating Athletic Bilbao in the Spanish Super cup. 3.Real Madrid’s first official stadium was Campo de O’Donnell and they started playing in this stadium in 1912. 
4.The title “REAL” which means (Royal) in spainish was given to the club by King Alphonso XIII in 1920 and give permission to use the Royal Crown on their T-shirt.
5.Real Madrid won their first domestic league (now known as La Liga) in 1931-1932 season and also retained the title next year.
6.In 1943, Club legend Santiago Bernabeu became president of the club. Under his presidency club rebuilt their stadium and training facilities (Ciudad Deportiva) after Spanish Civil War damaged the facilities.
7.In 1950,Real Madrid emerged as a major force in both Spainish and European football by winning five European Cups (now known as Uefa Champions League) and won the league five times in the course of seven years.
8.By the early 1980s, Real Madrid had lost its grasp on the League title until the home- grown players emerged as the next stars and because of them Real Madrid had one of the best teams in Spain and Europe during the second half of 1980s.
9.When Real Madrid appointed Fabio Capello as Coach, team won their first European Cup after 32 years wait. Real Madrid also won the ‘Club of the Century’ because of their success.
10.And when the Florentino Pérez become the president in 2000, Real Madrid never looked back, they got the new nickname which was ‘Galactico’s team’ because every superstar wants to play there. Under his presidency, Real Madrid won 3 consecutive UCL and no other team comes closer to this record till date. 
Personal Opinion:-For me, Top 5 players who played for Real Madrid was Santiago Bernaeu, Ferenc Puskas, Zidane, C.Ronaldo and Sergio Ramos.