Nazanin Zaghari-Ratcliffe was imprisoned on spying charges while visiting her parents in Iran.

While in Iran in September 2016, Mrs Zaghari-Ratcliffe, a project manager for the Thomson Reuters Foundation, was indicted for plotting to topple the Iranian government and was given a five-year sentence.

Then, in April 2021, she was convicted for another year on charges of propaganda against the government. Mrs Zaghari-Ratcliffe has always refuted those allegations and said that she was only in Iran to visit her family.

Her release came after the UK government paid £400m debt to Iran dating back to the 1970s, although both governments have said the two issues should not be correlated.

Escorted by her family and the Labour MP Tulip Siddiq, Nazanin Zaghari-Ratcliffe talked face to face with Boris Johnson for the first time since her release in March. 

Siddiq said that after six years of “unjust and unlawful imprisonment” the British-Iranian dual national deserved to directly to Johnson about why it took so long to get her home.

In 2017, Johnson, then foreign secretary, mistakenly claimed that Zaghari-Ratcliffe had been training journalists at the time of her arrest in 2016. Following his remarks, Zaghari-Ratcliffe was indicted before an unscheduled court hearing where his comments were used as proof that she was utilized in “propaganda against the regime”.

When asked if Johnson would be apologising to Zaghari-Ratcliffe, a spokesperson for the prime minister said:
I think it is important to remember that it was the Iranian government that was responsible for her unfair detention, and the decision to release her was always their gift. However, I would point back to the prime minister’s words, his answers to questions on this before and he has previously apologised for his comments in 2017.

Siddiq, the MP for Hampstead and Kilburn, said the prime minister looked “quite shocked” after Zaghari-Ratcliffe told him how his words affected her and that she had “lived in the shadow” of them for the past four and a half years.

She did have to voice out the injustice that happened to her! Boris Johnson's silence cannot be trusted, does this mean he had to play a part in this?