Australia on Sunday said the Quad member countries have accepted India's position on the Russian attack on Ukraine and that no country would be unhappy as Prime Minister Narendra Modi has been using his contacts to call for an end to the conflict.

Separately, diplomatic sources said India's position on the Russian invasion appeared to be driven by then Prime Minister Jawaharlal Nehru's policy in 1957 that India was not in the business of condemnation and it focuses on creating a space for resolution of conflicts.

The crisis in Ukraine is expected to figure in PM Modi's virtual summit with Australian Prime Minister Scott Morrison on Monday amid some disquiet in the West over India's position on the conflict.

Unlike its Quad partners -- the US, Japan and Australia -- India has not condemned the Russian invasion of Ukraine and has been maintaining that the crisis should be resolved through dialogue and diplomacy.

"The Quad countries have accepted India's position. We understand that each country has bilateral relationship and it is clear from the comments of the MEA (Ministry of External Affairs) and Prime Minister Modi himself that he has used his contacts to call for the end of the conflict and no country will be unhappy with that," Australian High Commissioner to India Barry O'Farrell told reporters.

The Australian envoy was asked about increasing disquiet in the West over India's position on the Russian invasion of Ukraine and its purchase of discounted crude oil from Russia.

On Friday, Morrison said the situation in Ukraine and its implications for the Indo-Pacific will figure in his virtual summit with PM Modi.

The diplomatic sources cited above said India's position on Ukraine is reflective of Nehru's policy in 1957 that India was not in the business of condemnation and it was in the business of creating a space for resolving conflicts.

"No one has ever accused India of supporting what is going on in Ukraine. What India seems to be doing is trying to operate within the policy outlined by Nehru 65 years back," said a source.

Credit & source:- NDTV