New Mexico is one of the most poorly designed cities in the world, it has a lot of problems the main being social, economical and geographical ones.
The city sits at a very high altitude but it’s lower than the mountains surrounding it. Because of the cities high altitude the oxygen levels are lower than 25% and all the pollution created in the city is trapped in it thanks to the large mountains surrounding it.  People used to wear face masks in the city way before the pandemic started. Now Mexico City’s bad air pollution  which contributes to high rates of Respiratory and cardiovascular diseases  is making the metropolitan area’s 21 million people more vulnerable to the coronavirus. Mexico City wasn’t always an ecological and health disaster. As the centre of the Aztec empire, it was verdant and diverse. As late as the early 20th century, 45 rivers ran through the Mexican capital. The decision to bury and pave over its rivers, creating today’s arid metropolis, was a 20th-century plan meant to protect residents from disease – specifically, cholera, malaria and other waterborne illnesses brought on by frequent flooding.
This was a good idea but it didn’t turn out the way it was intended, this is because New Mexico today is sinking. Some part of the capitol sink by 2.5 cm to 1 inch every month. To make this worse different part of the city is sinking at different rates, this is a problem because this results in breaking of the infrastructure which sit both above and below ground.Further on the building of skyscrapers on the aztec foundation is making it a lot worse due to their very heavy weight. Due to a phenomenon called subsidence, Mexico City is sinking at a rate on a foot and a half each year. 
All this also effect the underground systems like sewage, gas and water lines.The city invested a lot of money in a new sewage system which was completed in the late 1800s, it was meant to help with the flooding and sewage problems which didn’t quite work as well it was meant to due to subsidence.