Fremantle have stunned Geelong with a memorable three-point win at Kardinia Park to lay down their marker as a genuine AFL premiership contender.

The Dockers belied the injury-enforced absences of Sean Darcy and Matt Taberner, along with giving up the first three goals of Saturday's game, to prevail 10.9 (69) to 10.6 (66) in one of the finest victories of Justin Longmuir's tenure.

It was just their fourth win in 19 attempts at Kardinia Park and included keeping Geelong goalless from the 28-minute mark of the first quarter until the 20th minute of the third in front of 20,136 fans.

Fremantle are now 6-1 and second behind reigning premiers Melbourne despite skipper Nat Fyfe (back) not playing all season, while Geelong remain firmly in the pack of clubs jostling in the lower half of the eight.

Winger Blake Acres (27 disposals) was excellent while midfielder Andrew Brayshaw (28 disposals) was typically industrious.

Rory Lobb gave the Dockers a target all day, while Griffin Logue shut down Jeremy Cameron and Alex Pearce overcame Tom Hawkins' red-hot start to fight out an entertaining duel.

Defender Tom Stewart (40 disposals, 13 marks) was clearly the Cats' best while small forward Tyson Stengle (three goals) was lively and Cam Guthrie (35 disposals, eight clearances) stood out in midfield in Patrick Dangerfield's absence.

The Dockers looked shellshocked early as Geelong booted the first three goals of the game, with Hawkins kicking two.

Lobb steadied the ship, with Nathan O'Driscoll adding another from the boundary, while Lachie Schulz's late snap kept the margin to nine points at quarter time.

Geelong's Max Holmes injured his ankle late in the first quarter and was substituted out for Luke Dahlhaus early in the second.

Fremantle dominated the second quarter with their pace and slick ball movement but were wasteful early, kicking three points before Lobb's second major drew them within a point.

Sam Switkowski's long-range point drew Fremantle level at the main break, then they exploded in the third term.

In his 100th game, Darcy Tucker snapped the Dockers in front, with Switkowski and Michael Frederick nudging the lead out to 18 points.