Iqbal Jakati was no stranger to hardships and disappointments, struggling for many years to find his calling, but life seemed bleak to the journalist from the northern district of Belgaum in Karnataka following four years of wrongful incarceration on terror charges in August 2008. 
In a recent conversation with Article 14 in Kurnool, Andhra Pradesh, the 50-year-old father of three children recalled he was downcast and afraid of what the future might bring but determined not to let the state-afflicted ordeal silence him. 
Quite the contrary, Jakati’s anger propelled him to do what he had always dreamed of: journalism to report on the Hindu right and the persecution wrought in the era of majoritarianism. 
Six years after he entered the fray of digital media as an independent journalist, Jakati’s YouTube channel, Ittehad News, has amassed 67,000 subscribers and nine million views. 
“The YouTube channel has got a huge response,” said Jakati.  “I was openly critical of the BJP and the RSS, and people liked it,” he said, referring to the Hindu nationalist Bharatiya Janata Party, now in power at the Centre and in Karnataka, and its ideological parent, the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS). 
While his arrest and incarceration from 2008 to 2011 happened during BJP’s first stint in power in Karnataka followed by five years of the Congress Party, Jakati said the BJP’s second time in power had escalated the persecution of Muslims in the state. 
Jakati has reported on a wide range of issues, including attacks on press freedom,  the job crisis, the false conspiracy of ‘love jihad’, and incidents of communal violence. Jakati has also produced a short documentary on stories of Hindu- Muslim unity in his home district. 
Jakati’s inspiration is Ravish Kumar,  the primetime news anchor for NDTV India. He says Kumar is the “last man left in the mainstream media who is doing journalism”.
“The Hindutva forces are doing things which are anti-constitutional, and they are targeting minorities while the mainstream media and government is helping them,”  he said .
Read more - https://article-14.com/post/a-muslim-journalist-wrongfully-incarcerated-on-terror-charges-fought-back-by-reporting-on-the-hindu-right--633650e9a23f5