It always seems to happen at the worst time. You’re in class, working through a long meeting, or contending with a busy schedule, and suddenly you feel those telltale cramps that signal aunt flow has arrived. You rush your way to the bathroom with hygiene product in hand, ready to take care of business, only to find there’s not a single drop of blood.
How can that be? You swear you felt your period start, so how could it be possible that nothing is going on? This experience is a widespread phenomenon, and many people don’t know what it means. So, what is it that has you experiencing all of the symptoms of a cycle without your period actually beginning?
Symptoms ; 
What does a “phantom flow” or “ghost period” do to your body? There are several symptoms to note:
1Cramping
2 Bloating
3 Fatigue
4 Breast Tenderness
5 Mood Swings
6 General Discomfort
It can be scary to experience those symptoms without anything to show for it, especially if they are prominent. If you’re cramping severely, develop a fever, vomiting, or any other concerning symptoms, you should seek medical aid immediately. If everything feels like a typical period, but you don’t have any blood, it could mean several things.
Cycle Phases ; 
One of the most straightforward answers is that your cycle has several phases where symptoms can occur. These symptoms are not always limited to when you are actively bleeding. The phases of the menstrual cycle are:
1 Menstruation: The shedding of the uterine lining and what causes the blood flow associated with periods.
2 Follicular: The uterine lining begins to thicken and creates follicles that mature and become an egg.
3 Ovulation: Once a follicle has matured into an egg, that egg will release in hopes of interacting with sperm so that it can fertilize.
4 Luteal: If there is no sperm to fertilize the egg, the egg will die, and the uterus’ lining will prepare to shed. At this point, the process starts over, and menstruation begins. 
Read more - https://www.orchyd.com/blogs/overflow/explaining-phantom-flow