Vegetables of all colors are packed with vitamins, minerals, fiber, and phytonutrients. You can’t go wrong by adding more colorful produce to your plate. There are, however, vegetables with a higher nutrient content relative to their calories, making them exceptionally helpful for weight control and health.
Dr. Fuhrman, the developer of the nutritarian diet, came up with the idea of an ANDI (aggregate nutrient density index) to quantify the nutrient content of fruits and vegetables relative to their calories. Using the ANDI score, researchers undertook the time-consuming task of ranking 41 fruits and vegetables according to their nutrient density. Let’s look at which produce tops the list in terms of nutrient density per calorie, based on the ANDI score.
1 Watercress ( Nutrients Density 100 )  ;
Watercress tops the list of nutrient-dense vegetables per calorie based on ANDI criteria. Watercress is a dark green, leafy vegetable that grows in cold, clear streams and rivers, and you can enjoy its peppery flavor raw or cooked. However, you’ll retain more of its vitamin C if you consume this leafy green raw. Watercress adds a kick to salads, wraps, and sandwiches. Along with vitamin C, watercress is rich in vitamin K, important for blood clotting and bone density, and beta-carotene, a precursor to vitamin A and an antioxidant and anti-inflammatory.
2 Chinese Cabbage ; 
Chinese cabbage is also called Napa cabbage, and it’s a member of the Brassica family. This green, leafy veggie has long, pale green leaves with white ribs and a sweet flavor. Since it’s a cruciferous vegetable, like watercress and broccoli, it contains similar phytochemicals, some of which are being explored for potential anti-cancer benefits. What you might not know about Chinese cabbage is it’s more nutrient dense than regular cabbage, offering more of certain vitamins such as vitamins C, K, and folate, a B-vitamin. Plus, it contains various antioxidants with anti-inflammatory activity, all for only 9 calories a cup.
Read more - https://scitechdaily.com/the-5-most-nutrient-dense-vegetables-based-on-science/