Highlights
•
Male infertility is an underdiagnosed health problem related to the dysfunction of pituitary gland and gonads.

•
In order to study the male factor in a comprehensive manner, assessment of hormonal status is essential.

•
The hormonal evaluation of male infertility initially should include the determination of testosterone level and gonadotropins hormone levels.

•
The spermatogram is the cornerstone in male infertility evaluation.


Abstract
Background and aims
The prevalence and incidence of infertility are increasing worldwide; they are associated with a significant economic and social impact. Infertility is defined as the inability to achieve pregnancy after 12 months or more of regular unprotected sex. In recent times, the male factor has gained importance and currently it contributes to approximately 50% of infertility cases. Multiple etiologies are stated, such as metabolic, anatomical, genetic or even idiopathic causes; however, the main cause is semen abnormalities. The aim of this manuscript is to provide a complete review of hormonal assessment of male infertility, as well as to review the physiology and pathophysiology related to the male gonadal axis.

Methods
This study is a narrative abstract carried out on basis of systematic bibliographic review, using articles indexed in PubMed/Medline, Scopus, Embase and Scielo, which were published during the last 20 years.

Results
The cornerstone of the evaluation of the hormonal status is semen analysis. Clinicians must rule out hypogonadism in those patients who present oligospermia and azoospermia, by determining levels of testosterone and gonadotropins, which provide the functionality status of the hypothalamic-pituitary-testicular axis. Evaluation of the adrenal, thyroid, and lactotroph axis are indicated in those patients with central hypogonadism.

Conclusions
Despite advances in the diagnosis of male infertility, some causes are not fully understood, therefore, it is crucial to perform a timely hormonal evaluation of the male factor in infertile couples, in order to provide adequate treatment and improve fertility rates.

Keywords
InfertilityHormonesHypogonadism