US President Joe Biden is most likely going to nominate a black woman to replace the seat vacated by the liberal Justice Stephen Breyer, who will retire in June. The formal announcement will happen by the end of February, names of three women judges are already doing the rounds. Let’s have a look on the profiles of the top three contenders in the race:

1. Ketanji Brown Jackson, 51: Currently serving on the US Courts of Appeals for the DC circuit is famous for her 2019 ruling where she dared to write that “Presidents are not Kings,” who don’t have “loyal subjects in their control”; this compelled a former aide to President Trump testify in probe on the alleged Russian interference in US elections. She worked as judicial clerk under Justice Breyer in 1999-2000. A jurist with two degrees from Harvard University was nominated by former President Barack Obama to serve as a district judge in Washington. Joe Biden had elevated her to her current post in 2021 from federal district court.

2. Leondra Kruger, 45: An associate Justice of the Supreme Court of California is a graduate of Harvard University and Yale Law School. She had previously worked at the Obama Department of Justice from 2007-2013. She served as a clerk for US Supreme Court Justice John Paul Stevens. She has the experience of arguing 12 cases before the apex court. If nominated and confirmed she would not only become the first Black woman on the court, but also the youngest justice.  

3. Julianna Michele Childs, 55: Unlike Ms Jackson and Ms Kruger, Ms Childs doesn’t have an Ivy League school background. But she has served on the federal bench and as a circuit court judge in South Carolina for years. She was nominated to the DC Circuit Court of Appeals by President Biden. She is considered a dark horse in the race because Congressman Jim Clyburn, an influential black politician and close ally of President Biden, advocated her nomination because of her unusual resume.   

READ MORE: https://www.bbc.com/news/world-us-canada-60160424

https://www.nytimes.com/2022/01/26/us/politics/supreme-court-nominee-black-woman.html

https://www.reuters.com/world/us/retiring-us-justice-breyer-appear-with-biden-white-house-2022-01-27/