The supply of vital computer chips – that power our cars, smart phones, medical devices and various other products – has fallen to an alarmingly low level, raising the specter of factory shutdowns in the US, the Commerce Department reported Tuesday.

According to the report, companies that use chips have less than five days of inventory as demand for these vital components have far outstripped the supply. The gap between demand and supply is expected to further increase as technological devices that use such chips, such as in 5G and electrical vehicles, are becoming more widespread. Chip shortages have especially disrupted the auto industry and driven up car prices with a deep impact on overall inflation.   

Last June, apprehending this acute crisis, the Biden administration had passed a bill, called the U.S. Innovation and Competition Act, promising to invest a quarter-trillion dollars into research and development to manufacture semiconductor chips – the building blocks of modern technology. But such manufacturing may not happen overnight.

The demand for such chips rose abruptly after the Covid-pandemic that shut people in homes increasing pressure on electronic devices for work or school. In addition, the pandemic encouraged people to own more cars, and avoid public transport, pushing the auto industry to increase production, but chip scarcity didn’t help them do so.

The tragedy is that even if the US is the biggest consumer and producer of the cars and smart devices, it hardly produces 10% of the semiconductor chips which are made through labor intensive procedures. This is the reason most of the chips (87%) are produced in Asia, especially Taiwan, China and South Korea. Among them Taiwan is not only the most prolific (63%), but the producer of the most sophisticated chips. Tension over China and Taiwan and the related ruckus – as China doesn’t want any nation to recognise Taiwan’s sovereignty—has further complicated chip supply from the region.    

The recent failure of some Taiwanese chip factories feeding smartphones, automobiles and military industry in the US has raised questions on whether China hacked chip production, sparking off a US-China confrontation.  

READ MORE: https://www.pbs.org/newshour/economy/u-s-warns-that-computer-chip-shortage-could-shut-down-factories

https://abcnews.go.com/Technology/global-chip-shortage-threatens-economy-national-security-americans/story?id=82399618

https://www.nytimes.com/2022/01/26/us/politics/computer-chip-shortage-taiwan.html