It is a difficult thing, to get horror right, be it in books, games or movies.  Just one of the few examples of those games which got horror just right on every scale is Deadspace and that is getting a sexy new remake this year. 

But that is not what I’d like to talk about, storytelling through silence and environmental features is one demanding task and few ever get it right. 

Well, Scorn’s gameplay trailer just came out a few days ago and damn, apart from getting it narrated by Doug Bradley which is a neat choice, it sure as hell seems like one gigantic hellscape where you truly don’t want to end up and blast the blazes out of it in a frantic attempt to escape alive. 

Honestly, it looks like ending up in the realm of some HP Lovecraft monstrosity, or in the crux of an HR Giger painting. Even worse, the realm of one of the Chaos gods from Warhammer 40k while you are not either a Space Marine or the Doomguy, hell not even the Death Corps of Krieg. 

The gameplay is gross, disgusting, gory, terrifying and seems like a great time. You want disgusting, well look no further because your protagonist wakes up pulling out from his chest what is most likely an umbilical cord, the gameplay trailer also showcases you interacting with a bunch of limbs and bloody organs.  

The creation of natural horror and suspense through silence, except in gameplay effects, music and great audio is just the icing on the cake.

 The protagonist also explores a bunch of places with vibes similar to Alien, Doom 3, or one of the demon worlds of  Warhammer 40k. 

There are also indications of there being some puzzle solving while trying to survive an onslaught from a creepy batch of disgusting enemies. 

This is essentially like a horror FPS survival with silence and environmental storytelling, disgustingly phenomenal artstyle and constructing an engaging experience. 

Scorn is a horrifying acid trip through hell laced with horror and carnage that is disgusting, revolting, and twistedly sexy. H.R Giger would be proud.