Lucknow: Whether in New Delhi, Madhya Pradesh (MP), Gujarat or Uttar Pradesh (UP), demolitions of homes and other properties of alleged rioters and others in states either directly administered or otherwise controlled by India’s ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), are increasingly viewed (here, here and here) as collective punishment.


The targets of demolitions in these four states have been primarily Muslim, and the process unlawful, with these actions violating a series of laws and court judgements—although a 2009 Supreme Court judgement arguably justified a breach of due process in the confiscation of property during a protest. 


Sometimes, the justification for these demolitions has been couched as ongoing action against encroachments, as in New Delhi on 20 April 2022, four days after a riot during a religious procession that had been refused permission by the police. 
At other times, there has been little attempt to find justification, as in Madhya Pradesh on 11 April.


“Jis ghar se patthar aaye hain, us ghar ko pattharon ka hi ghar banayenge (Whichever houses were involved in stone pelting, we will turn into piles of stones),” said home minister Narottam Mishra.


Anas Tanwir, a lawyer from Delhi said there were various provisions of the Indian Penal Code 1860  (section 146—rioting; section 153-A—promoting enmity) that allowed the police to file criminal cases and act against alleged rioters.


In an interview to NDTV, Mishra made the targets of the demolition explicit and acknowledged the law was being bypassed. “If Muslims carry out such attacks, then they should not expect justice,” he said.


Such use of bulldozers has become a part of the BJP’s electoral narrative, deployed successfully in Uttar Pradesh, where chief minister Yogi Adityanath was called “Baba Bulldozer”, as he won an unprecedented second term in March 2022. 


Citing the demolitions in MP, UP, Gujarat and New Delhi, BJP leaders in Karnataka are now demanding similar action by their government, all going against not just the law but natural principles of justice.

Read more - https://article-14.com/post/demolitions-as-collective-illegal-punishment-with-mainly-muslim-properties-destroyed-after-riots-6265a9ad591d8