 When thinking of the best makeup artists, it is impossible not to think of Lon Chaney. Through a series of elaborate make-ups and disguises,he became the master of disguise, his artistic genius turned him into a man of a thousand faces whose mastery of makeup really turned the whole game around in Hollywood, with his terrific and absolutely on screen personas.

There were few people who ever subjected themselves to the levels of torture Laney subjected himself to in order to get into his role. With a gift for physical contortion, Laney went through the most arduous procedures to turn himself into the crooked person he was made to play on stage.

In 1923, he starred in what would become one of his best-known films, a silent version of ‘The Hunchback of Notre Dame’. Two years later, in 1925, Laney played another one of his most popular roles in the silent version of the ‘Phantom of the Opera’ where he was the first to truly recreate the horrifying, macabre, deformed appearance of Erik found in the novels.

To recreate both the appearances, Chaney went through agonizing pain such as putting a 50 pound hump on himself to appear as the hunchback which is said that along with the various appliances he used to recreate the hunchback actually did some permanent damage to him, or in an attempt to deform his nose for the Phantom, he applied putty to sharpen his nose and inserted two loops of wires into his nostrils, which made his nose actually bleed many times.

Chaney became one of Hollywood's most popular actors during the silent film era, making over 157 recorded film appearances in total, during the period of 1913 and 1930. The characters he portrayed were diverse, often macabre, gruesome and sometimes nightmarish.

But unlike today’s CGI horror figures which are painfully simple and sometimes laughably hilarious, Chaney’s portrayals of the deformed and the hideous, harboured a level of complexity, eloquence and passion that spoke volumes, being grotesque, yet sometimes moving, leaving a strong impression due to Chaney’s ability to make his characters more than their contorted outward appearance.  