Rugby in India has grown rapidly over the years, with rugby being a sport that is equally popular among the elite class and rural areas.
The 36th National Games being held in Gujarat is witnessing a strong performance in the Rugby 7s competitions which started at TransStadia Football Ground in Ahmedabad from Wednesday.  The women's teams in particular are catching all eyes and people are taking special interest, as the Indian women's rugby team last month finished second in the Asia Rugby 7s trophy by performing exceptionally well.  The matches between current champions Bihar in women's teams are going to be tough with strong teams like Maharashtra, West Bengal, Odisha.
While in men's semi-finals Haryana will fight against Delhi and Maharashtra will face West Bengal. Whereas in the league match, where Haryana beat Punjab by 21-7 in a one-sided encounter. In another match Maharashtra who reached up in semifinals had lost with Haryana by 17-14 in tough fight. In finals Haryana Maharashtra are the teams which likely to filght for Gold.  But at the same time Rugby is such a game that any team can do charisma on the field at any time.
By the way, special attention will be given to the teams of Haryana in men and Bihar among women who are both the current national champions.  Haryana's team coach Sarvinder and captain Deepak Punia says that this time we have entered the field with the best preparation beforehand, there are experienced players like Tilak, Vikas Khatri in the team.  Team physio doctor Anju Yadav says that they are constantly keeping an eye on the players and every player is completely fit, if this form remains intact then we can show a one-sided match in the final.  But as already said, any team that has reached the National Games can surprise you at any time.
Indian Rugby has seen excellent professional improvement in the standards of the game. The current President of Rugby India, Rahul Bose, who is himself an international player and a cine star, takes special interest since the last few months, he has been on continuous nationwide tour every state unit.  