Australian Rugby has been given a huge boost by World Rugby, being named as host of the 2027 men's and 2029 women's Rugby World Cup tournaments.

World Rugby confirmed the decision at a council meeting in Dublin on Thursday.

"This is an historic day for rugby in Australia," Rugby Australia Chairman Hamish McLennan said.

"We're beyond thrilled to be welcoming not one, but two Rugby World Cups to our shores."

Australia, two-time winners of the men's World Cup in 1991 and 1999, had previously been named as the preferred candidate to host both tournaments.

It last hosted the men's World Cup in 2003, losing to England curtesy of an extra time Jonny Wilkinson drop goal in a dramatic Sydney final.

None of the previous nine editions of the women's version of the tournament have been held in Australia.

Rugby Australia estimates that hosting the back-to-back tournaments will provide a $1.8 billion injection into the local economy.

Confirmation of the awarding of the World Cups will be a welcome boost to Rugby Australia, which has struggled financially in recent years.

Rugby Australia needed a $14 million loan from World Rugby last year after pre-existing financial issues spiralled into a full-blown crisis because of the COVID-19 pandemic.

Rugby Australia terminated more than 40 per cent of staff at the start of the pandemic in 2020 — the culmination of a horror period in which former chief executive Raelene Castle left the organisation, it paid an out-of-court settlement to Israel Folau, and it faced a declining supporter base and allegations of mismanagement from former players.

But with interest gathered from World Cups in 2027 and 2029, the Commonwealth Games in 2026 and the Brisbane Olympics in 2032, plus the financial windfall of a British and Irish Lions tour in 2025, Rugby Australia has the chance to recapture the imagination of the sporting public.

Two-time World Cup winning Wallaby Tim Horan wrote on social media that being awarded the two tournaments is "the most significant moment in Australia rugby's history, since winning RWC 1991."..

World Rugby also confirmed that the men's and women's Rugby World Cups would head to the USA for the first time in 2031 and 2033 respectively.