It's a well-known fact that Komi had a lonely childhood due to social anxiety. Episode 19 reveals a painful memory from her junior high school years.
The premise of Komi Can't Communicate centers around Shoko Komi overcoming her extreme social anxiety and improving her communication skills. Since the start of the series, Komi has been working on her ability to connect with other people and tasked herself with making 100 friends. Over the course of two seasons, Komi has been keeping a list of the new friends she's made and is even starting to become more comfortable using her own voice as opposed to just a notepad to communicate.
Surprisingly, despite Komi's character arc being centered on her extreme social anxiety and subsequent communication disorder, very little attention has been given to her backstory. At best, it's been established that there is a genetic predisposition toward anxiety and communication disorders within the Komi family line, but this hasn't been explored in any depth. Komi has also, on occasion, communicated her past struggles connecting with her classmates, but this has never been depicted in a flashback sequence. Enter Episode 19 of Komi Can't Communicate, giving viewers a first glimpse into Komi's past.
In the Episode 19 story "It's Just a Group Decision for the School Trip," Komi's homeroom teacher announces the first school trip of the year to Kyoto. While students like Najimi Osana and Hitohito Tadano are excited about the trip, the only student in the room who is far from enthusiastic is Komi. This puzzles Tadano, as school trips are one of the few times during the school year that the students get to have fun. When Komi avoids sharing her true thoughts about the upcoming school trip, this concerns him even more.
On their walk home from school, Tadano tries to ask Komi if she's feeling alright since he notices a melancholy look on her face.She writes that she's doing okay and is feeling fine. With nothing more left to say, Komi and Tadano go their ways, only for Komi to call him shortly after.