Bengaluru: On 9 April 2022, the arrival of a police contingent to the Masjid-e-Mamoor mosque in Bengaluru’s Koramangala—a tony neighbourhood known for its lush residential lanes, malls and offices of start-up companies—took those coming in to pray by surprise and some apprehension.  

 

That apprehension was well founded. 


The next day, a series of processions marking the Hindu festival of Ram Navami had resulted in communal clashes in Karnataka and across India. Processions were repeatedly used as a platform by Hindu fundamentalists to abuse and threaten Muslims and mosques. Community leaders in Bengaluru, as in many towns and cities nationwide, advised Muslims not to react to provocation. 


On 12 April, when the faithful gathered to break their fast under the lit domes of the Koramangala mosque, hundreds of riot police swarmed outside.


"I saw police units marching in…and I was taken aback for a moment," said Mohammad Anas, a 30-year-old software engineer with a multinational company who prays at the mosque. “But in a moment I realised they were the ones who were going to organise the iftar for the evening.”


Anas had seen police units head for the mosque through the heaving street outside, lined with stalls preparing a variety of kebabs, rotis, biryanis and other food for iftar, the evening meal when the daily fast is broken in the holy month of Ramzan.

There were substantial grounds for apprehension among the state's Muslims. 


In the days leading to 12 April, police had entered mosques in Bengaluru to remove loudspeakers. Stoking further tension, Karnataka home minister Araga Jnanendra, the head of the police force, attempted to demonise Muslims by falsely lending communal overtones to a road-rage incident. 

Jnanendra claimed that calls and attempts by Hindu fundamentalists to boycott Muslim businesses in the state were a “reaction” to protests by the Muslim community against a 15 March 2022 Karnataka High Court verdict upholding a government ban on hijabs in State-run colleges. 

Read more - https://article-14.com/post/in-a-time-of-religious-tension-bengaluru-s-police-religious-leaders-push-inter-faith-traditions--627b364dcdc61