Central Govt slashing financial allocations to All India Football Federation by 85%. It is sad to know that the government is not seeing the increased popularity and performance development of the game in the country. 


Official statements say the step was taken due to the continuous "poor performance" of the national team. 


Sports secretary Sujata Chaturvedi said in minutes of the meeting, “Considering the poor performance of the Indian football team, AIFF was advised to strictly focus on the development of grassroots-level talent."



AIFF’s financing has declined from Rs 30 crore for the financial year 2019-20 (for an 18-month period up to September 2020) to Rs 10 crore in 2020-21. This year, AIFF stands to get only Rs 5 crore from the central government.


The feel of neglect goes worse when we see the allocation for other games:


Athletics - 30 crore

Badminton, Boxing, Hockey, Shooting -24 Crores each

Archery - Rs 15.85 crore

Weightlifting - Rs 11 crore


Even sports like Tennis get more than football this financial year. 


The Central government will review the performance of the national team at the 2022 Asian Games and decide on further funds. 



Every fan must be disappointed with the way the government reviews development only with the national team's performance. It is true that the team is at 106th spot in FIFA ranking but the AIFF is continuing to push development of the beautiful game in India through different programmes and tournaments. AIFF is now conducting men and women club leagues, where the number of teams has increased marginally. Junior iLeague tournaments are also part of development from grassroot. AIFF has started the Futsal league from 2022. Also, the federation has started AIFF academies in 3 different cities. In recent years, Indian clubs' performance in Asian level is also better. 


FIFA also hopes better about Indian football than the country's own government. They have been giving grants to players from 3000-5000 dollars, started football for schools in October 2021 and so on. 


Amid the rumors that AIFF is run by marketing bodies, now it gives a chance for them to own football in India. 