(The above infographic is from 2016, the environmental damage from the AnAg industry has now worsened)

Veganism adopted by an individual won't undo the effects of capitalism. People should stop expecting it to. But studies after studies have shown how it's better than the meat and dairy based diets, and by huge amounts. So it's time we stopped pretending that it doesn't do the planet any good when there is an enormous amount of research to back it up.

There is no denying that growing and harvesting plants has its own footprint and it does harm the planet but the harm is multiplied many times in Animal Agriculture because not only trillions of animals and machinery is causing climate change, but to feed those animals, a similar amount of crop is being grown. Everyday. In addition to that, the amount of crop that goes to one animal raised for meat only feeds one person, or sometimes less. In fact, animals are overfed so they get fat and make for more meat. Which means more plants. Do you seriously not see the damaging effects of meat on the planet?

According to an Oxford University study, people who eat meat are responsible for almost twice as many dietary greenhouse-gas emissions per day as vegetarians and about 2.5 times as many emissions as vegans. Producing meat is directly responsible for a lot of deforestation and destruction of indigenous land. So not only is the animal agriculture industry harmful for the climate but is directly responsible for environmental racism.

The IPCC's special report on climate change and land examined recently released scientific publications that looked into how these various diets could assist to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. According to the analysis, a global move to veganism would result in the greatest reduction in emissions of any dietary change.

When compared to a "business-as-usual" scenario, switching to veganism may save about 8 billion tonnes of CO2e per year by 2050, according to the analysis. (All food production currently emits roughly 13.7 billion tonnes of CO2e per year.)

That is a HUGE change. So let's stop pretending veganism doesn't help the environment. :)