There’s a scene in Baz Luhrmann’s astonishing biopic of Elvis Presley in which the petrified young star-on-the-ascent, played with uncanny likeness by emerging talent Austin Butler, is heckled by hillbillies for his effete looks. A charmer in the crowd calls him a “fairy” for his bubblegum pink suit, heavily gel-slicked hair and smokey eyeliner, at which he locks eyes with the audience member and promptly unleashes merry hell on stage, teenage girls overcome with hysteria at his hip-thrusting, lip curling, devilish swagger and magnetic presence. It’s a moment that perfectly encapsulates the fascinating duality of the performer, who’s become more myth than man; on one side all masculine bravado and sexual prowess, on the other a razzmatazz showman who could give Liberace a run for his beadwork.

The sexy suit

It’s a suit, but not as we know it. Elvis toyed with tailoring by allowing more fluid proportions, all the better for highlighting his physicality on stage and showcasing those hip-thrusting, leg-jerking moves. 

A flamboyant shirt

Of course, one can’t think of Elvis without thinking of those All American, camp collar shirts. The style evolved when curious Americans began adopting the shirt style popular amongst Cuban and South American farm workers – the soft style and wide, spread-open collar was a cooling option for outdoors work in searing temperatures. 

Eyeliner and that quiff

Tellingly, whenever Austin Butler’s Elvis needs a moment to compose himself, he studiously combs his hair. This was the burgeoning Brylcreem era, when the concept of men’s grooming was just beginning to register during bathroom ablution routines across America, and Elvis was its poster boy. 

The all-out jumpsuit

Harry Styles might have adopted a spangly Gucci number on stage recently, but he owes the jumpsuit – and a great deal more of what he wears – to the original showman. What I find fascinating about Elvis is the fact that he loved all this decoration and adornment, and was very camp in how he dressed, but you never for a question his masculinity.