A new investment body will empower Indigenous people to make decisions on how Federal grants under the Aboriginals Benefit Account will be used, according to the Northern Land Council.

The Federal Government passed a major package of reforms in December last year to the Aboriginal Land Rights (Northern Territory) Act 1976.

The centrepiece of the reform was the creation of a new body called the Northern Territory Aboriginal Investment Corporation, which is set to receive $680 million over three years once it commences operations.

Five years in the making, the move signals a major change for Indigenous Territorians, who for the decades have had grant distribution under the ABA determined by the Federal Government.

To date, the government has taken advice from Federal bureaucrats and a committee of 14 Aboriginal representatives appointed by the four land councils in the Aboriginals Benefit Account Advisory Committee.

This has led to several flashpoints, most famously in 2007 when then-Indigenous Affairs Minister Mal Brough was accused of using the fund to award a grant in his own electorate in Queensland.

NLC chairman Samuel Bush-Blanasi said the land councils had been pushing to gain control of the fund since a meeting in 2016.

“At Kalkaringi in 2016 we passed a resolution calling on the Government for Aboriginal Control over the ABA,” he said.

“We said we would work with the Government on the design of a new model.”

Several meetings later and under the watch of current Indigenous Australians Minister Ken Wyatt, a new bill to transfer control of the ABA was introduced the parliament.

“Lots of people opposed us. But they did not stop us,” Mr Bush-Blanasi said.

When the bill passed I said this was a proud day for the Northern Land Council and for Aboriginal people in the Northern Territory.”

The Northern Territory Aboriginal Investment Corporation has a board controlled by Aboriginal people. It has 12 directors with eight nominated by the four land councils – two from each land council.

The Northern Land Council is represented by Mr Bush-Blanasi and deputy chairman Richard ‘Dickie’ Dickson.

The Federal Government has also appointed two directors – Justin Ryan and Suzanne Hullick.