LGBTQI+ advocacy organization Human Right Campaign is de-romanticizing Florida’s claim towards being a “Sunshine'' state, by updating billboard’s to reflect the state-imposed violence on LGBTQI+ youth. 

“Gov. Ron DeSantis welcomes you to Florida, the ‘Don’t say gay or trans’ State,” the billboards in Orlando, Tampa and Tallahassee read, with the ‘don’t say gay or trans’ part covering Florida’s nickname “Sunshine” originally written on the boards.

When DeSantis signed ‘Don’t Say Gay’ bill, into law, he effectively unleashed a state of erasure against LGBTQI+ folks by making it illegal to have any possible conversations about their lives in classrooms.

“It’s about truly trying to eradicate LGBTQ issues, identities from the public square. This is a campaign that truly is striking fear into the hearts of LGBTQ people but particularly kids, so the intention of the billboard campaign is to really expose for people the real harm,” Kate Oakley, HRC’s state legislative director and senior counsel, told Miami Herald.

Florida’s law states: “Classroom instruction by school personnel or third parties on sexual orientation or gender identity may not occur in kindergarten through grade 3 or in a manner that is not age appropriate or developmentally appropriate for students in accordance with state standards.”

At what point is it “age appropriate” to let children know that they have the right to be who they are and to love who they love? What is the measure used to determine that it is “developmentally appropriate” to let children lead with love, and to not internalize toxic gender roles that translate into their own repression projected onto other students for living their truth?

“Florida’s ‘Don’t Say Gay or Trans’ law is outrageous and discriminatory. It needs to be repealed immediately. This billboard campaign is designed to make people confront what this terrible law really does: censor and silence educators and isolate LGBTQ+ students and their families,” HRC Interim President, Joni Madison, told Orlando Weekly.

A collection of LGBTQ organizations and families including HRC, have filed a federal lawsuit against the practice of the “Don’t Say Gay Or Trans” law.