Manish Sisodia, the deputy chief minister of Delhi, claimed today that the CBI was pursuing him because the government was upset with the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) for receiving praise both domestically and internationally for its "commendable" efforts in the fields of education and healthcare.

Manish Sisodia accused Prime Minister Narendra Modi of "misusing" the central investigating agencies against political rivals. Sisodia has been named as an accused in a First Information Report filed by the CBI on violations of the liquor policy.

According to Mr. Sisodia, the government wants to frighten the leaders of his party since they see Arvind Kejriwal as PM Modi's main opponent in the 2024 Lok Sabha election.

He claimed that instead of a prime minister who always considers the CBI and ED, the nation needs someone who would make India the "number one country in the world."

"PM Modi constantly considers conducting CBI and ED searches on his political enemies, but Arvind Kejriwal considers healthcare, education, and employment,"

In a 14-hour home raid, Mr. Sisodia claimed nothing was found and would not be found because there was no scam. He also denied any wrongdoing.

"They don't give a damn about any excise policy scam; if they did, they would have started by looking into the corruption in BJP-ruled Gujarat, where excise tax evasion amounts to Rs 10,000 crore annually. Thousands perish there from consuming toxic alcohol "He spoke

A BJP leader initially claimed an 8,000 rupee scam, and then another leader reported a theft of 1,100 crore rupees. They are now claiming a Rs 144 crore scam, but they won't discover anything because the execution of the liquor policy was carried out in total transparency, he added.

The minister added that although he will almost certainly be detained in the upcoming days, his party will continue to carry out its noble goals. I'm not afraid, he declared.

On Friday, the CBI conducted searches at Manish Sisodia's home, who also oversees the Excise Department, and 31 other places spread across seven states due to charges of corruption in the liquor regulation system.