The world’s largest and heaviest living carnivore is not a big cat, a bear or a wolf: it’s the southern elephant seal (Mirounga leonina). Bulls of this species can be 5 metres long and can weigh up to 3,500kg. The Cape fur seal, meanwhile, can grow to 3.9 metres and weigh up to 360kg. A large African lion, by comparison, weighs 250kg.

So you might think that the ancient ancestors of these and other large seals would leave ample evidence of their presence in the fossil record. That’s partly true; there is an extensive global body fossil record for seals. But, until now, there’s been no documented evidence of fossilised seal traces – the tell-tale signs of these big animals dragging their flippers while hauling themselves along ancient beaches.

Our new research, from South Africa’s Goukamma Nature Reserve on the country’s Cape south coast, changes that. The traces we discovered and described are from two sites that date back about 75,000 years.

This adds to our existing knowledge about what kinds of animals roamed this landscape long ago, as well as what the landscape may have looked like – an important part of understanding what’s changed over time and how it might change as the climate shifts.

Many different creatures
The Cape south coast ichnology project started in 2008. Ichnology is the study of tracks and traces. Since then our team has identified more than 300 vertebrate tracksites along a 350 km stretch of the South African coastline. The tracks and traces date back to the Pleistocene epoch, which started around 2.6 million years ago and ended 11,700 years ago.

The tracks and traces are found in aeolianites (the cemented remains of dune surfaces) and cemented beach deposits. The fossil sites have provided a census of which creatures left traces of their passage on those ancient dunes and beaches: elephants, crocodiles, large birds – and even hominins, human ancestors. There were tiny members of this varied community, too; we’ve reported on gerbil and spider tracks and traces.

Read more: https://theconversation.com/flipper-traces-reveal-the-presence-of-ancient-seals-on-south-africas-coast-187232