The world today is facing unprecedented, interconnected environmental challenges in areas including climate change, clean water, ocean health and biodiversity. New  efforts are needed to increase stewardship of natural resources, implement innovative solutions, and contribute to sustainable development.
To accelerate progress, Ehsaas Trust International has developed several programs to embed sustainability into their strategy and take action to secure a resilient future and work towards social upliftment keeping environment at the fore.Our efforts address the linkages among various environmental issues — like tree plantation, heath & sanitation, water management ( Ehsaas International runs the biggest borewell project covering several water stressed districts of the valley of J&K). This year's theme of Environment Day "Living Sustainably in Harmony with nature"  composes well with the mission & vision of Ehsaas International. The activities carried out are harmonious and in alignment with the nature (Human, Social & Environment).
In this Decade of Action, our goal is to help communities scale up impact towards the Sustainable Development Goals.As the world looks to recover better from the global pandemic and implement the transformative change necessary, collective action will be critical.It is the responsibility of the present generation to protect the environment so that our future generations get a better planet to live on.
Sustainable Development Goals (SDG) Ambition is one of the major accelerators that Ehsaas International aims to challenge and support. SDG Ambition enables us to move beyond incremental progress and step-up transformative change – unlocking many opportunities & stepping up the growth. Through the Ambition, Ehsaas International identifies risk areas, raises awareness, understanding the gaps & deficits, and then discovers new opportunities to establish the social-environmental connection. 
Under the  Sustainable Development Goal Ambition, Ehsaas International targets all the major SDGs with special attention towards SDG 2, 3 , 4 ,5,6,8, 10 & 15. 

Ehsaas International shall continue to target The Global Goals and include them holistically in its Mission of Change & community welfare. Together we stand, together we shall win.