Prologue continues....

Around 3000 years ago, the Upanishads said: ‘neti, neti’ (this is not
the end). The search does not end anytime. It goes on and on, unravelling
the deeper reality.

The Bhagwad Gita, the song celestial, represents the synthesis of the
different schools of philosophy with great emphasis on the philosophy of
Karma.
Jawaharlal Nehru speaks about the universality and immortality of
the message of the Bhagwad Gita:

“The message of the Gita is not sectarian or addressed to any
particular school of thought. It is universal in its approach for
everyone. It is because of this universality that it has found favour
with all classes and schools. There is something in it which seems
to be capable of being constantly renewed, which does not become
out of date with the passing of time – an inner quality of earnest
inquiry and search, of contemplation and action, of balance and
equilibrium, in spite of conflict and contradiction. During the
2,500 years since it was written, Indian humanity has gone repeatedly through the process of change and development and
decay; experience has succeeded experience, thought has followed
thought, but it has always found something living in the Gita.

Something that fitted into the developing thought and had a
freshness and applicability to the spiritual problems that affect the
mind.” (The Discovery of India)
Dr S. Radhakrishnan highlights the profundity of the wisdom contained
in the Gita:

“Millions of Hindus, for centuries, have found comfort in this great
book which sets forth in precise and penetrating words the essential
principles of a spiritual religion which are not contingent on ill founded facts, unscientific dogmas or arbitrary fancies. With a long
history of spiritual power, it serves even today as a light to all who
will receive illumination from the profundity of its wisdom, which
insists on a world wider and deeper than wars and revolution can
touch. It is a powerful shaping factor in the renewal of spiritual
life and has secured an assured place among the world’s great
scriptures.” (Radhakrishnan Reader – An Anthology; Bharatiya
Vidya Bhavan, 1988)

To be continued....