The Argentine has been in charge of Parc des Princes since January 2021, but he may be forced to resign in the near future.

Mauricio Pochettino's career at Paris Saint-Germain is in jeopardy after his side failed to advance past the last 16 of the Champions League despite having Lionel Messi, Neymar , and Kylian Mbappe at his disposal.

With European success escaping the Ligue 1 heavyweights again again, there has been much speculation that another change in the dugout may be made this summer.

How much will it cost PSG to sack Pochettino?
Pochettino is already being connected with top jobs abroad, with Manchester United long thought to be interested in the former Tottenham manager, but parting with the Argentine will be a costly business for PSG.

How much will Pochettino's dismissal cost PSG?

The 50-year-old is under contract at Parc des Princes until 2023, meaning he still has more than a year left on his deal.

With that taken into account, L’Equipe reports that it would cost PSG around €20 million (£17m/$22m) to part with their entire coaching team.

Pochettino would receive a €15 million (£13 million/$16 million) compensation package, while his four aides would each receive €5 million (£4 million/$5 million).

According to reports, Pochettino's right-hand man, Jesus Perez, is paid €80,000 a month, while Miguel D'Agostino and Toni Jimenez are paid €50,000 each, and Sebastino Pochettino, Mauricio's son, is paid €20,000.

PSG is thought to be remorseful for not extending its management team's contracts at the start of the current season, with initial agreements signed in January 2021 only lasting through the summer of 2022.

The Ligue 1 heavyweights have been in this situation before, with some recent big severance payments.

Current Chelsea manager Thomas Tuchel, whose resignation opened the way for Pochettino's appointment, was paid between €7-8 million (£7 million/$9 million) when his contract was terminated, while Laurent Blanc was paid €22 million (£18 million/$24 million) when he left in June 2016.