Punjab Chief Minister S. Bhagwant Mann reviewed the progress of

PCA preparations for India Vs. Australia T-20 Match

Gulzarinder Singh Chahal, President, PCA informed that Hon’ble Chief Minister S. Bhagwant Mann had a detailed meeting with the Office Bearers of the Punjab Cricket Association. The meeting was sought by the Office Bearers of Punjab Cricket Association for making adequate security & allied arrangements for smooth conduct of the match.

The Meeting, Chaired by S. Bhagwant Mann, Chief Minister, Punjab was attended by Sh. Raghav Chadha (Hon’ble MP), S. Harbhajan Singh (Hon’ble MP and Chief Advisor to PCA), Sh. Sanjeev Arora (Hon’ble MP), Sh. A. Venu Prasad (ACS and Principal Secretary to CM), Sh. Gaurav Yadav (DGP Punjab, Sh. Kumar Amit (SPS to CM) , Sh. Ravi Bhagat (SPS  to CM) ), Sh. Himanshu Jain (Additional Principal Secretary to CM), Sh. Amit Talwar (DC Mohali), Sh. Kuldeep Singh Chahal (SSP Chandigarh), Sh. Vivek Sheel Soni (SSP Mohali), Sh. Rajbir Singh Ghuman (OSD to CM) , Sh. Dilsher Khanna (Honorary Secretary, PCA), Sh. Rakesh Walia (Honorary Treasurer, PCA) and Sh. Deepak Sharma (CEO, PCA) was held at Chief Minister’s Residence.

The Chief Minister, Punjab was elated that such a prestigious international event is being held in the State of Punjab. He advised Gulzarinder Singh Chahal to make suitable arrangements to showcase Punjab culture during the event.

The Hon’ble Chief Minister has further advised that PCA may distribute flyers celebrating “75 years of Independence - Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav”.

The Hon’ble Chief Minister S. Bhagwant Mann has further ensured fool-proof security and cooperation from the Punjab Government to make this event successful.

Gulzarinder Singh Chahal further shared that PCA has tied up with M/s Paytm for sales of tickets. He informed that PCA has given special discount to students and tickets will be available  Rs. 300/- against Student Identity Card.

He further informed that the tickets will be sold online. However, student tickets will be available at PCA Counters.


 