The Palanquin Strike in Calcutta in 1827 is  considered as the first strike in India.
Of course, the Calcutta of those days was nothing remotely like the Kolkata of today, but the pace of urbanisation had picked up after more than a century of East India Company rule, and the traffic system had become complicated enough for the administration to issue a new set of rules and guidelines for it.

The administration declared that palanquins or palkis could not charge in excess of three annas per mile travelled, which was definitely low for the labour.

Also, every palki bearer would have to carry a numbered metal token, their palkis would bear numbers, and each bearer would have to get himself registered with the police. Incensed by these directives, the palki bearers declared that they were shutting shop.

Therein lay the problem. The new rules were meant primarily for the city’s many palki bearers, who were furious at this attempt to regulate their operations, and promptly went on strike. 

One Panchu Sur, who reportedly led the strike and staged a rally at Dharmatala. towards the end of May 1827, hundreds of palki bearers went off the streets of Calcutta for almost a month. 

Brownlow, a Calcuttan of British descent, modified his palanquin into a horse-drawn carriage by removing the posts and attaching wheels. He created the city's first hackney carriage, necessitating the formulation of an Act in 1869 to regulate the carriages. The rickshaws, prime concern of the Hackney Carriage Act now, came much later in 1900 and were initially private vehicles used by the city's Chinese.

Thus it was that a transport strike forever changed the face of Kolkata traffic. 

Of course, the palki did not go out of fashion overnight. In fact, it remained in use for more than another century, but it was no longer the city’s major mode of transport. Both the average citizen and the sahib now had other options. 

novelist Jean-Baptiste Alphonse Karr  in 1849 first coined the saying, “Plus ça change, plus c’est la même chose” (the more things change, the more they remain the same). Holds true for palki