Kerala Blasters who were the runners up of last season's will be taking on East Bengal in the opening match of this season's Indian Super League. Both the sides have been pretty famous due to the massively dedicated fanbases that they're blessed with. Kerala Blasters who reached the finals last year will look to continue from where they left. On the other East Bengal will be looking to turn the tables around after a disappointing performance which saw them finish at the bottom of the table last season. 
The red and gold brigade with fresh vigour will look to thrive in this edition of the league under Stephen Constantine. The Blasters meanwhile will be heading into this season with their same head coach - Ivan Hukomanovic as last year. The Serbian coach had managed to bring out the best of his side last season which lead to some really desirable results as the fans got to see some high quality football. It remains to be seen as to who emerges victorious in the opening game this season.
Match Details 
Kerala Blasters vs East Bengal FC
Date and Time - 7th September, 7:30 PM IST
Venue - Jawaharlal Nehru Stadium.
Kerala Blasters vs East Bengal FC Predicted line-ups
Kerala Blasters FC: Prabhsukhan Singh Gill; Harmanjot Khabra, Marko Leskovic, Ruivah Hormipam, Jessel Carneiro; Sahal Abdul Samad, Jeakson Singh, Puitea, Adrian Luna; Dimitrios Diamantakos, Apostolos Giannou.
East Bengal: Kamaljit Singh; Mohammad Rakip, Ivan Gonzalez, Lalchungnunga, Jerry Lalrinzuala; Aniket Jadhav, Jordan O’Doherty, Alex Lima, VP Suhair; Cleiton Silva, Sumeet Passi.
Match Prediction - Kerala Blasters 1-0 Easy Bengal 
Based on the performances which the Blasters delivered in the previous season, it seems highly possible for them to lick start this season too with a fantastic win over East Bengal in the opening match.
Kerala Blasters FC vs East Bengal: Live telecast details
The opening match of ISL this season between Kerala Blasters and East Bengal FC, like every other, will be telecasted on Star Sports and Star Sports HD TV channels in India from 7:30 PM onwards. The match can also be streamed online on Disney+ Hotstar. 