On Sep 1st, an acquaintance of singer Nam Tae-hyun, who was suspected of taking methamphetamine, told OSEN, “I don’t know about the police investigation’s result of Nam Tae-hyun and Seo Min-jae.”

This acquaintance stressed that he/she has not been in touch with Nam Tae-hyun for several months. He/she said in a phone call with OSEN, “I haven’t been in touch with Nam Tae-hyun recently. It is likely that he will be directly contacted by the police and will proceed with the investigation.”
Seo, who made her face known while appearing on Channel A’s dating program “Heart Signal 3”, claimed Nam Tae-hyun’s methamphetamine administration and revealed the fact that they are lovers. Somehow they ended up in a public relationship.
Many people did not know whether the two are dating, but eventually their relationship became known through their own confession. In other words, controversy over methamphetamine administration came to the surface as Seo Min-jae revealed that Nam Tae-hyun is a “druggie“.

Earlier on Aug 20th, Seo Min-jae shocked everyone as she posted on her Instagram, “Nam Tae-hyun takes drugs. His syringe is in my room or in my office cabinet. And he hits me.” Seo Min-jae then added, “I have the syringe Nam Tae-hyun used. Nam Tae-hyun and I are druggies. Look into my office cabinet. Syringe and… Ah, there’s a recording on my phone. It was love back then.” Suspicions that Nam Tae-hyun may have administered methamphetamine have been strengthened.
The next day, the civic group Judicial Exam Preparation Students’ Association filed a complaint with the National Investigation Headquarters of the National Police Agency against Nam Tae-hyun, Seo and a third party who supplied drugs to them for violating the Narcotics Control Act.

Regarding this, Seoul Yongsan Police Station began an internal investigation into Nam Tae-hyun and Seo, who were suspected of taking methamphetamine, and booked them on charges of violating the Narcotics Control Act on Aug 26th. The two are under police investigation.