Chris Baraniuk looks at the range of responses to long covid around the continent

Maarte Preller leads a Facebook group for patients with long covid in Austria. It has nearly 1500 members so far. In September, Preller, and others like her across Europe, established a new network of patient associations, formed partly through social media websites, called Long Covid Europe. The group is demanding better research and treatment for the tangle of ongoing symptoms that afflict many people who have had covid-19.

A patchwork of small studies has given some indication of what long covid on the continent is like. In a study of 130 cases, 40% of patients reported “persistent fatigue” 60 days after their first symptoms, while 30% reported breathlessness. Another, of 143 patients in Italy, revealed 55% had three or more symptoms 60 days after they were discharged from hospital.

A preprint posted in January 2022 of an ongoing study of 70 000 Norwegian patients listed altered smell or taste, poor memory, fatigue, and shortness of breath as common symptoms in the country’s first wave (in early 2021), while those infected from autumn 2021 onwards tended to mention muscle and joint pain more. The data suggest that symptoms were experienced for 11-12 months after infection in the first wave and for one to two months in the second.

A World Health Organization policy brief published earlier this year found that surveillance of long covid was not happening routinely in European countries.1 There are few specialist clinics for the condition—access to such a service largely depends on where you live—and in many countries action seems to be limited to guidance and monitoring.

The many faces of action
In the UK, there are more than 80 NHS run long covid clinics. Long covid services were highlighted as part of £6.6bn in new funding announced in March 2021 for the ongoing NHS response to the pandemic.3 Separately, the Scottish government has announced £10m in funding for local health boards to help patients who have long term symptoms.
Read more 

https://www.bmj.com/content/376/bmj.o158