By Saurabh Duggal

Discriminating the differently abled players, Bhagwant Mann led Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) government in Punjab has ignored the para athletes – the players with a disability – during the felicitation function of the Punjab players who won medals & participated in the recently concluded 2022 Birmingham Commonwealth Games, held at Chandigarh on Saturday.  

Commonwealth Games is the only multi-discipline sports event where competitions of both the able-bodied & differently abled players are held simultaneously at the same venue.  

The Mann government felicitated 23 sportspersons from the state – all able-bodied – for winning medals and participating in the CWG, but overall there were 25 players, including two para-lifters, from Punjab, who were part of the Indian contingent in CWG.     

Birmingham-bound para-lifters Manpreet Kaur, who hails from Phagwara, and Paramjeet Singh, who is from Haripur Khalsa village in Ludhiana, were not included in the state government’s function.

The Punjab government gave a total cash prize of Rs 9.30 crore to 23 players, out of which 19 were the medal winners – 15 silver medallists got Rs 50 lakh each, while 4 bronze medalists were given a cheque of Rs 40 lakh each. Four players, who missed the podium finish were given a cash award of Rs 5 lakh for the participation.

The Punjab Sports Department was totally clueless about the state’s two para-lifters Manpreet and Paramjeet representing the country at the CWG.  

“This is not the first time that the para-sportspersons are facing discrimination in Punjab. We both (Paramjeet and Manpreet Kaur) had also competed in the 2022 Commonwealth Games, but the Punjab government has failed to acknowledge our efforts,” says para-lifter Paramjeet Singh, who won a bronze medal in the 2018 Para Asian Games. “When the para sportspersons had competed at the same games at the same venue at the same time, then why the Punjab government failed to include them along with the able bodied sportspersons hailing from the state during the cash award function. This clearly shows how insensitive we are towards the disabled section of the society,” says their coach Rajinder Singh Rahelu, himself an Arjuna awardee para-lifter.