The United  Nations General Assembly (UNGA) on October 10,  voted on a motion moved by Albania that demanded action on the draft resolution that would condemn, Russia's "illegal referendums and annexation" of the Donetsk, Kherson, Luhansk, and Zaporizhzhia regions of Ukraine be taken by a recorded vote. 
Russia had demanded that the resolution be voted upon by a secret ballot which was rejected after 107 UN member states, including India, voted in favour of a recorded vote. 
Only 13 nations voted in favour of Russia's call for a secret ballot while 39 abstained. 
Russia's Permanent Representative Vassily Nebenzia stated that the UN membership had "become witnesses to an outrageous fraud in which the president of the general assembly, unfortunately, played a key role".
"We were not given the floor to make a point of order, our statement was distorted, and now UN member states are being robbed of their right to express their opinion freely". 
"This undermines the authority of the general assembly and the United Nations as a whole and in such circumstances we opted to not take part in the vote," he added. 
Last month US and Albania tabled a UN security council draft resolution to condemn Moscow's "illegal referenda" and declared the annexation of four Ukrainian territories as invalid. India abstained the resolution. 
The 15-nation UN Security Council had voted on the draft resolution on "Illegal So-Called Referenda in Ukraine”, but the resolution failed to get adopted as permanent UNSC member, Russia vetoed it. 
After Russia's veto, US Ambassador to the UN, Linda Thomas Greenfield affirmed to continue to pursue liability at the UNGA, where every country has a vote. 
Whereas the UNGA President Csaba Korosi reassemble the emergency session on Ukraine to condemn Russia's actions as a clear violation of the UN Charter and the principles of sovereignty and territorial integrity. 
The draft resolution would repeat the demand that Russia withdraws its forces from Ukraine and cease its unprovoked war of aggression against Ukraine. 
The action in the UNGA came just after Russia's deadly missile strikes against multiple Ukrainian cities, Including Kyiv, which killed more than 10 people and wounded around 60 across Ukraine.