Samajwadi Party (SP) chief Akhilesh Yadav on Tuesday resigned from the Lok Sabha to retain the assembly seat. 

Yadav had won the 2019 Lok Sabha elections from Azamgarh and the 2022 assembly polls from Karhal. 

The move to retain the assembly seat is a right decision on the part of Yadav who has the task of not only keep his flock together but also try to boost the morale of his alliance partners. 

There is already the talk of cracks in the opposition alliance following reports suggesting that Suheldev Bharatiya Samaj Party chief Om Prakash Rajbhar meeting BJP leaders for a post-poll tie-up. 

Though he denied meeting home minister Amit Shah, political observers feel that there is no smoke without the fire. 

Rajbahar cannot afford to remain in political wilderness for the next five years and could jump the ship anytime. 

Smaller parties do switch loyalties in no time in order to stay politically relevant. 

Had Yadav retained the Lok Sabha seat, he would have shown his non-seriousness towards the state politics, a charge he faced during the recent elections. 

Besides the post of the Leader of the Opposition in Uttar Pradesh will also give him an opportunity to effectively take on the government on critical issues. 

There is no doubt that he gave a good fight to the BJP but launched his campaign very late. Had he been visible in the state a year or two before the elections, the outcome night have been different for his party. He was missing from action during the crisis of migrant workers who were forced to return to their homes due to the lockdown imposed to check spread of coronavirus or at the time of Hathras and Unnao gangrape incidents. 

Yadav has often come under fire for his frequent foreign trips. He also has to work towards dispelling the notion that the SP rule promoted goondaism by his community members in the state, an allegation that forces the other castes to look for options.

In the just-concluded elections, only Yadavs and Muslims supported the SP while other castes consolidated in favour of the BJP.