This year’s Stella Prize shortlist has broken the mould. For a prize that was already somewhat revolutionary in promoting women and then non-binary writers, and for throwing fiction and non-fiction into the same $50,000 prize pool, this year represents another revolution: the inclusion of poetry.

The result was a kaleidoscopic longlist that spanned from short story, poetry and essay collections to a graphic novel, long-form experimental essay, cultural memoir, and just two novels; and from this, a shortlist dominated by poetry and experimental non-fiction, and with the first-ever shortlisted graphic novel. 

It feels like Stella has begun a new chapter.

Taking you through this six-book reading list are RN's book experts: Claire Nichols and Sarah L'Estrange from RN's The Book Show and Kate Evans from RN's The Bookshelf.

The Stella Prize winner will be announced on April 28.

Homecoming by Elfie Shiosaki

Homecoming doesn't look like the other books on this year's shortlist — or indeed any other book I've read this year. Its unique structure alternates poetry, prose and archival material to tell the story of four generations of Noongar women from WA writer and academic Elfie Shiosaki's family.

TAKE CARE by Eunice Andrada

TAKE CARE is the second poetry collection by Eunice Andrada, who was born and raised in the Philippines. There are poems about the Filipino diaspora, rape culture and the dehumanising machinery of both war and online domains. Throughout are references to bodies in their soft tenderness and also as sites of abuse and exploitation.

Bodies of Light by Jennifer Down

A woman receives a message on Facebook, out of the blue, calling her by a name she had shed 20 years and two countries ago. It jolts her back into her old life and earlier self: a childhood in Australia in the late 70s and early 80s — a place of poverty and precarity, and occasional kindness.

Stone Fruit by Lee Lai

Rendered in gorgeous hues of black, white, grey and blue, this graphic novel is about Ray and Bron, the "weird queer aunties" to their young niece Nessie. 

Dropbear by Evelyn Araluen & No Document by Anwen Crawford among others.