Chelsea find themselves in quicksand, following their 3-1 thumping at the hands of Real Madrid. The Galacticos' 3-1 win has put the "royal whites' in the driving seat for the second leg. Surprisingly it is also Madrid's first victory over Chelsea. 

Having been knocked out by the London club in last season's Champions League, Madrid was the clear underdog coming into the quarter-finals. Before their clash against Chelsea, Los Blancos had suffered a humiliating defeat at the hands of their fiercest rival, Barcelona. The result of which led to the footballing world doubting their chances against title holders, Chelsea. But football is a strange game, and only a fool would bet against the "Royal Whites."

Although Chelsea's chances of qualification are slim, the quarter-final clash is not yet done and dusted. 

3 Score an early goal.

Chelsea would've been in the mud had the away goal rule still been prevalent. The Blues will be playing their maiden game at the Bernabeu. The Blues needs to come out of the blocks firing on all cylinders. Chelsea needs to take the game to Madrid and hope to score as early as possible. An early goal will unsettle any team and boost the morale of the Chelsea players. It is nights like this that separate the greats from the average. 

2 Keep Benzema at bay

The Blues felt the full wrath of Benzema as the Frenchman went on to score a hattrick and crash Chelsea's UCL dreams. The Chelsea defenders need to rectify their earlier errors and pay close attention to Benzema, who is in the form of his life. Since Modric is Benzema's sole provider, the blue's defense needs to be on Benzema's back whenever Modric picks up the ball.

1 Do not Concede

A goal for Madrid would be the final nail in the coffin for Chelsea. In the first leg, the blue's sole focus laid on nullifying Modric's threat. Hence, opening half-spaces for the likes of Vinicius and Benzema to exploit. The duo thrived in the open spaces and slaughtered Chelsea's backline. The Blues need to devise and execute their plan to perfection to keep their UCL hope alive.