If you’re reading this, hopefully you agree with that statement full-heartedly. Unfortunately, members of LGBTQIA+ communities do not always receive that kind of care.

“Despite the progress we have made as a country toward granting equal rights to those who identify as LGBTQ+, this community continues to experience worse health outcomes and reduced access to care when compared to their heterosexual and cisgender counterparts,” says Brentton Lowery, PA-C.

Lowery is an AAHIVS certified specialist in HIV prevention and a sexual health and medical provider with Nurx.

There are a number of factors at play, such as higher rates of behavioral health issues, lower rates of insurance coverage, a lack of cultural competence in the medical setting, and, sadly, even outright discrimination on the part of some medical professionals, he says.

“These disparities are even more likely to impact LGBTQ+ individuals who are part of a racial or ethnic minority group.”

Here, a full breakdown on seven of the top health disparities facing LGBTQIA+ communities. Plus, insight on what you can do to navigate these disparities as an LGBTQIA+ person, as well as an LGBTQIA+ ally.

LGBTQIA+ health disparities are about systemic inequalities

As you read through this guide, keep in mind that the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC)Trusted Source defines health disparities as “preventable differences in the burden of disease, injury, violence, or opportunities to achieve optimal health that are experienced by socially disadvantaged populations.”

So to be very clear: LGBTQIA+ communities are not innately more prone to the issues discussed below.

LGBTQIA+ communities have higher rates of things like anxiety, depression, and substance misuse due to systemic inequalities. These inequalities lead to worse care and worse health outcomes for LGBTQIA+ people.

Higher rates of anxiety

Across the board, LGBTQIA+ people have worse mental health outcomes compared to other communities. This includes anxiety.


Sources - https://www.healthline.com/health/lgbtq-health-disparities#anxiety