By Surinder Singh Oberoi

New Delhi: On June 21, some hundred plus rioters carrying sticks, stones and flags, shouting "anti-Indian" slogans gate crashed the Maldives national football ground. They attacked participants at the 'Yoga Day event organized by the Indian High Commission and the Maldivian government.

Video footage made viral on social media of the incident showed angry men carrying sticks and flags, some masked and attacking participants seated on the ground on yoga mats. The Maldives police force arrived and tackled the mob, allowing the event to resume. Maldivian President Ibrahim Mohamed Solih called it a matter of "serious concern". 

Some dozen persons were arrested. The Maldives Police said that the attackers were from the Opposition Progressive Party of the Maldives, led by former President Abdulla Yameen, who is currently spearheading an 'India Out' campaign.

Maldives domestic politics are getting dirtier by the day. Alleged China's involvement and activities through local politicians are now visible and felt on the streets of Maldives. Earlier, Maldivian President Ibrahim Mohamed Solih (allegedly supported by India), on April 21, 2022, issued a decree banning the 'India Out' campaign, led by former President Abdulla Yameen (allegedly supported by China), terming it as a "threat to national security." The Presidential order said the campaign against India "exploited" the freedoms and "intends to disrupt" the long-standing bilateral relations between the Maldives and India and efforts to maintain peace and security in the region.

The 'India Out' campaign, started and sustained by critics of the President Solih administration, gained prominence in recent months. The campaign accuses the Maldivian government of "allowing" Indian military presence in the island nation – the government has repeatedly denied it. President Solih has opted for an 'India first' foreign policy and has said he is unapologetic about Male's close ties with New Delhi.

Opposing the ruling government Abdulla Yameen, former President of the Maldives, said "it strongly condemns the unconstitutional executive order" by President Solih, "suspending" people's right to freedom of expression opposing "the illegal stationing of Indian Military forces" in the Maldives. "

Read the full story here:- https://www.newsdrum.in/analysis/anti-india-activities-are-rising-in-the-maldives-and-india-needs-to-pause-them-52648.html