CII SEEKS RECONSIDERATION OF CAQM DIRECTIONS RESTRICTING DG SETS OPERATIONS ACROSS INDUSTRIES IN NCR
 With the deadline of the ban on diesel gen-sets (DG sets) and shifting to piped natural gas PNG-run generators closing in, the Confederation of Indian Industry requested the Commission for Air Quality Management (CAQM) in NCR & Adjoining Areas to reconsider direction 54 (Similarly directions- 55, 56 and 57 in other NCR areas) to address the practical challenges being faced while complying with the order.
In an official representation made to the Ministry of Environment, Forest & Climate Change, Government of India, CII, on behalf of industry members of Delhi NCR, has suggested that the timeline for total adoption of converting to PNG/CNG or dual hybrid technology and retrofitting emission control devices be extended to a minimum time of 1 year.
 Rohit Relan, Chairman, CII Haryana & CMD, Bharat Seats Ltd said, “As an advocate of a sustainable circular economy, CII commends the initiative of transitioning toward clean fuel technology for a sustainable, pollution-free environment. However, very few factories have been able to shift to PNG-based generators, as a comprehensive pipeline network is still underway and supply to units is limited to a few industrial areas in Delhi NCR. Besides, there is an acute shortage of dual fuel kits and RECDs, which is posing to be a big challenge for manufacturing units. Missing norms for retrofitted dual fuel kits may further pose safety challenges. Industry, especially MSMEs, are stretched thin to mitigate the losses from the pandemic due to added capital investment.”
Sharing the industry’s viewpoints to tackle the problem, Madhav Singhania, Chairman, CII Delhi & Deputy MD & CEO, JK Cement Limited said “Relaxations are a must under the Graded Response Action Plan (GRAP) till appropriate affordable technology becomes available for all manufacturing units alike. The need of the hour is for States to ensure 24x7 power supply to industrial areas, which will automatically reduce the dependence of units on DG Sets. Moreover, a robust gas distribution infrastructure will ensure eagerness among units to convert DG Sets to Hybrid Mode. 