It was way back in November last year that Pakistan nominated Sardar Masood Khan as its new envoy for the US. But there is a problem. Despite the Pakistani embassy in Washington submitting Khan's 'agrément' to the US State Department, his appointment has not been accepted by the United States.

There is speculation in the Pakistani media that the U.S. State Department is delaying because of the fraught relations between the two countries ever since the U.S had to leave Afghanistan in a hurry as soon as the Taliban took over Kabul. The Pakistani military was widely seen as the prime supporter of the Afghan Taliban. (https://www.dawn.com/news/1672561/us-delaying-approval-of-masood-khans-appointment-as-pakistan-envoy)

While the diplomatic officials between the two countries have been interacting, that has not been the case with both countries' top leadership. In fact, Pakistan has been complaining that Joe Biden has not spoken to its Prime Minister Imran Khan even once ever since he took as President of the United States.

There is another reason some in Pakistan are offering to delay in accepting his credentials or even backroom negotiations to change him. A former diplomat and 'president' of the Pakistan-controlled disputed region of Kashmir, Masood Khan was seen as the right representative in the U.S. to take up the issue of Kashmir, but his previous statements for allegedly supporting armed struggle against India in the India-controlled part of the disputed region could also be coming back to bite him. (https://www.thenews.com.pk/print/905828-masood-khan-named-ambassador-to-us)

For instance, in July 2021, he sent a "special message" on the "fifth martyrdom anniversary of Kashmir's most beloved freedom fighter," Burhan Wani. A militant leader of the Hizbul Mujahideen, a designated terrorist organization under U.S. law. The Indian military killed Wani in a gunfight in Kashmir. (https://www.meforum.org/62780/a-terror-supporter-goes-to-washington)

On the delay and speculation in the media, Pakistan has dismissed as "Indian disinformation campaign to malign Pakistan and those who represent Pakistan." (https://www.aaj.tv/news/30277521/)

In the meantime, Republican Congressman Scott Perry, in a recent letter to President Biden, expressed "grave concern" about Khan's nomination, saying that he is "a bona fide terrorist sympathizer working to undermine" US interests in the region. (https://www.ndtv.com/world-news/terrorist-sympathiser-us-congressman-scott-perry-urges-joe-biden-to-reject-pakistans-ambassador-designate-masood-khan-2742570)