By Amit Sengupta

Democracy has no place for a draconian act like the Armed Forces Special Powers Act-1958 (AFSPA), first enacted by the British. Only a military dictatorship would celebrate an act like AFSPA. Then, why is it, despite sustained and peaceful outrage by citizens, especially in the Northeast and Kashmir, and opposition to it among the larger community of intellectuals, students, academics, actors, artists, politicians and ruling state governments in these regions, successive regimes in Delhi – the capital of the largest democracy – refuse to scrap this act?

And despite the suffering of ordinary, innocent Indian citizens, why are the army and paramilitary forces given such unprecedented powers, which they often choose to use, in spontaneous panic or in cold-blooded deliberation, to arrest, torture and kill people?

Watch - https://youtu.be/CDUdCh4UTKE

MJ Vijayan, Delhi-based human rights and peace activist, says, ‘‘The state governments or regional political parties do not have to deal with one of the biggest lobbies in any ‘nation’ – the defence lobby. In India, as you know, that includes the arms-sellers, retired defence personnels, rather large corporate middlemen, compromised defence journalists, plus an army of military-loving Bhakts of the militarised nation.’’

Says Satya Sivaraman, Associate Editor, Countercurrents: ‘‘The Indian army will not allow it because their soldiers will revolt if they have to work in tough environments against highly motivated insurgents. They would also be liable for punishment in case there is collateral damage. Primarily, the point is that AFSPA covers up for the lack of discipline and training in the Indian army and the poor quality of its troops.’’

“There are at least 7000 separatist rebels campaigning for the sovereignty of the North East. The Indian army is one of the biggest armies in the world. The army is combating 7000 odd separatist insurgents, most of whom are in Myanmar. But having said that, does such a powerful army require an extraordinary and obnoxious power like AFSPA to combat these militants? It is for the government of India to think.”
Rajeev Bhattacharyya, Senior journalist, Assam

Full article: https://theprobe.in/afspa-anger-simmers-in-northeast-as-the-chorus-for-repeal-of-afspa-grows/