Attacks on Dalits have grown in Rajasthan since 2018. Recent incidents are evidence of upper castes viewing growing literacy, assertion by scheduled castes as a challenge to caste hierarchy—a Dalit man forced to shave off moustache, others beaten for riding a mare on their wedding, Dalit women prohibited from wearing slippers. In most cases, the accused enjoy the support of their communities.
JAIPUR: On the afternoon of 15 March 2022, as Jitendra Meghwal walked home  from his job as a contractual health worker at a government hospital in Rajasthan’s Pali district, 300 km west of Jaipur, he was ambushed by two men on motorcycles.



The men stabbed the 28-year-old repeatedly. By the time he was taken to hospital by bystanders, Meghwal was dead, having succumbed to injuries to his jaw, shoulder, chest and stomach.  
One of the two men police arrested was Suraj Singh, who had in June 2020 allegedly attacked Meghwal along with two other men. According to a first information report (FIR) filed at the Bali police station, Singh and his companions attacked Meghwal, a Dalit, and his mother because they had “dared to look up” at Suraj Singh, Kamlesh Singh and Chandan Singh, all belonging to the Rajpurohit caste, a sect of Brahmins who once served as caretakers and priests to royal families.



Following the fatal attack on Meghwal, a resident of Barwa village in Pali, his family and activists said his assailants had been prompted by caste prejudice once again, this time because Meghwal was sporting a moustache.
According to the FIR filed at the Bali police station after Meghwal’s death, Suraj Singh and Ramesh Singh, the other accused in the youngster’s murder, used a string of casteist slurs during the attack. These included words such as 'neech, kameena ( low , rascal ) and dedh'. Dedh is a common slur in Rajasthan used to refer to members of the scheduled castes in Rajasthan, a word that invites an offence the Scheduled Castes And Scheduled Tribes (Prevention of Atrocities) Act, 1989, also simply called the SC/ST Act. 

Sources - https://article-14.com/post/killed-for-sporting-a-moustache-dalits-in-rajasthan-s-feudal-villages-face-rising-tide-of-caste-violence-624cf9afb65f5