Just as we thought that monkeypox would be the new virus scare for 2022, the UK Health Security Agency (UKHSA) declared a national incident of repeated poliovirus detection in sewage in north and east London. Repeated positive readings for polio suggest that there is an ongoing infection and likely transmission in the area. This is unexpected since the UK had been declared polio-free since 2003. Here’s what you need to know.

Poliomyelitis (polio) is a devastating disease that historically has caused paralysis and death around the world. It is caused by polioviruses, small RNA viruses that can damage cells in the nervous system.

It is not found in animals, so, like smallpox, it can be eradicated. And thanks to effective vaccination campaigns, we have been getting closer to this goal every year.

There are three types of poliovirus, and infection or immunisation by one type does not protect against another. Type 1 poliovirus has continued to cause outbreaks, but transmission by types 2 and 3 have been successfully interrupted by vaccination.
Poliovirus is transmitted by respiratory droplets, but it can also be caught from food or water that’s been in contact with the faeces of someone who has the virus.

It can survive at normal temperatures for many days. The last remaining outbreaks have been associated with areas with poor sanitation that are hard to reach with vaccines. Afghanistan and Pakistan are the only two countries where wild polio is still endemic, and are targeted by eradication programmes to stop the virus spreading to other countries.

Crucial role of vaccines
Vaccines have been crucial in eliminating polio. In 2021, there were fewer than 700 reported cases around the world.

In the UK, the injected polio vaccine is used. It contains inactivated virus (IPV) and is safe and effective in protecting the immunised person from paralysis, but it is less effective at inducing local immunity in the gut, so vaccinated people can still become infected and shed infectious virus, even though they may not show symptoms themselves.

Read more: https://theconversation.com/poliovirus-in-london-sewage-what-you-need-to-know-185744