By Ashutosh Dixit
“No. FIR has not been registered yet. Investigating Officer (IO) has to take the opinion of the doctor. We must take medical advice first to find out if there were injuries… Tell me something, is the registration of your shelter home complete? An IO must have come to your shelter home to find if your shelter home is registered under the Gurugram administration,” said Sandeep, the Inspector with the DLF Phase III police station in Gurugram. 
Inspector Sandeep was talking to the 24-year-old trans man Gautam Ramachandra, one of the victims who was allegedly assaulted by a UP policeman. The violent incident occurred on September 1 at the Transgender Welfare Equity and Empowerment Trust (TWEET) foundation’s shelter home ‘Aasra’ in Gurugram. 
“We have already handed over all papers related to our organisation to the police. Our foundation is registered, and we have the requisite permission to run operations. These are two unrelated issues.
Why should registration be discussed when we ask why an FIR has not been registered in a case where two of us (trans men) were brutally assaulted by the UP cop?” asks Gautam while speaking to The Probe.
 
TWEET foundation’s shelter home ‘Asra’ offers shelter and short-stay facilities to trans men facing gender-based violence in the country. The incident that occurred on September 1 has deeply scarred the caretakers of the shelter home and its inmates, most of whom have taken refuge in the centre after facing gender-based violence. 
Gautam narrates why the UP policeman and his associates barged into the shelter home. “This is the story of trans men. Not many people know what this term really means. To understand the seriousness of this issue, first, you must know where we come from. Who we are. Why are our stories important? A transman is a man whose sex assigned at birth was female but whose gender identity is male or he wants to be identified as a male.”
Read The Full story here:- https://theprobe.in/two-weeks-on-fir-still-not-registered-by-gurugram-police-after-up-cop-assaulted-two-trans-activists/