I don’t know what’s old-fashioned love. I don’t know what’s new-age love. To me, love remains love. People and patterns change, do ever this emotion? I ask myself whenever I repeatedly watch the romantic scenes from The Bridges of Madison County.

Robert Kincaid (Clint Eastwood) just took a stranger’s liberty with Francesca (Meryl Streep) by asking directions to Roseman bridge.. Why she jumped into that old pickup and ride along with him. Robert was still wondering about her instant closeness and talks irrelevant to him. He falls in slowly, then intensely to a beautiful romantic bond redefined his life.

Being in her middle age, Francesca’s looks and life seem dull. She has grown-up kids and a decent, loyal husband. At the round table talk in kitchen with Robert she reluctantly admits she sacrificed her career for kids, rather her husband asked her to. She is an Italian war bride with less choices. Yet, everything is upright in her life. Was she looking for a wrong?

Set in1965 Lowa, film doesn’t bring any lush locales. It is a small town where everybody knows other. National Geographic photographer Robert Kincaid came there to capture pictures of Madison county’s covered wooden bridges. How’s this woman he just met challenge his naivety. Why is his camera stuck on her. Does it hurt when she pokes fun at him over a flower at the bridge. So many subtle emotions fleet across his face. Had it not been Clint Eastwood, who would! He did this role in his 60s! Meryl Streep was of heroine’s age. How beautifully she emoted every single feeling goes through her confused mind. No doubt, these legendary actors of Hollywood made this film a romantic classic of all times. 

Four days of incessant love and an agonizing parting. They kept this big secret from the world and lived and died with the anguish of an unfulfilled love. Ashes of both scattered from Roseman bridge. Robert remained unmarried whole life whereas Francesca kept her marriage intact till death.

I wish Francesca had left with Robert for that thrusting, soulful life waited for them..