Mental health is the state of mental well-being that contributes to individual and population health. This state of mental well-being sustains national output and labour force productivity. But governments around the world haven’t been investing resources into addressing mental ill-health. This is despite acknowledging that economics and mental health are intertwined.It’s documented that cannabis consumption erodes mental well-being. It has adverse effects on school, work, and social life. The consumption of cannabis has also been linked to increases in domestic violence.The 2019 Africa Regional Hemp and Cannabis report indicates that Africa contributed US$37 billion to the cannabis global market. This figure demonstrates the potential in targeting the cannabis sector for special excise taxes to fund African mental health prevention programmes.Some developing countries have opted to legalise the use of cannabis. These include Jamaica, Colombia, Malawi, Morocco, Pakistan, Rwanda, South Africa, Lesotho, Uganda, Zambia and Zimbabwe. All of these governments could benefit from implementing special excise taxes.Mental ill-health costs the world economy US$1 trillion annually. The 2020 Mental Health Atlas estimates the global spending on mental health per capita is US$7.49. These figures highlight the underinvestment in averting mental ill-health. Without a drastic increase in investment, this cost is projected to rise to US$6 trillion by 2030.Bold political commitment is needed to improve the financing of mental health programmes. In a recently published paper, my colleagues and I argue that imposing excise taxes on cannabis corporations is a feasible option. Excise taxes have rarely been imposed on the cannabis sector despite the wealth amassed by this industry. Current estimates show that the global formal cannabis sector is valued at US$25 billion in 2021 and is projected to reach US$176 billion by 2030.The growth projection demonstrates the risk of poor mental health as well as the viability of targeting the cannabis sector for special excise taxes. These can be used to finance prevention and promote mental health programmes that have remained neglected in developing countries.Read more: https://theconversation.com/cannabis-corporates-should-be-taxed-to-fund-mental-health-programmes-191624