Swiss voters approved a ban on tobacco advertisements in public spaces. In a national referendum there was overwhelming support for the legislation—nearly 57 percent of votes – asking for a complete ban on advertisement displays to dissuade young people from taking up smoking in the Alpine country.

Dispute its image of an environment-friendly and clean image, Switzerland has notoriously lax tobacco laws, in sharp contrast to those in neighbouring nations in Europe.  

Switzerland has actually been a smoker’s paradise as smoking in pubs and restaurants was outlawed in the country much later than France, Germany or UK. Even though public advertisements of tobacco products were banned in most western nations, cigarettes and e-cigarettes could be seen on billboards, movie theatres and public events like music festivals there. You could even spot young women distributing free samples of the latest cigarette brand in the supermarkets. And many of the ads specifically target minors with an agenda of ‘catch them young’.

The relaxed advertising law encourages a quarter of the adults – among 8.6 million people – to consume tobacco products which kill around 9,500 people every year.

For this situation, anti-smoking campaigners blame strong lobbying by some of the world’s largest tobacco companies – Philip Morris International (PMI), British American Tobacco and Japan Tobacco – headquartered in the Alpine nation. Apparently, these companies helped fund a campaign against efforts to ban tobacco advertisements in public spaces. These companies contribute about 6 billion Swiss francs ($6.5 billion) to the country’s economy – roughly equivalent to 1 per cent of GDP – and provide jobs to around 11,500 people.  

The tobacco lobby criticised the ban on public advertisements of tobacco which they claim is likely to affect individual freedom. Health advocates hailed the referendum as a significant step toward firm steps to control tobacco addiction, especially among the young.   

READ MORE:

https://www.aljazeera.com/news/2022/2/13/swiss-voters-approve-near-total-ban-on-tobacco-advertising

https://www.bbc.com/news/world-europe-60333336

https://www.nytimes.com/2022/02/13/world/europe/switzerland-tobacco-ad-ban.html