In 2022–2023, he has already had a significant influence in north London and has contributed to Mikel Arteta's team winning its first two Premier League games. Jesus has been involved in four direct goals more than any other player in the 2022–23 Premier League season. Since Alexis Sanchez's hat-trick and assist against West Ham in December 2016, Jesus is the first Arsenal player to have four direct goal engagements in a Premier League game.

He also made history by being the first Emirates player to score twice on his home debut in the Premier League. Jesus desired a chance to triumph on a significant platform as the World Cup approached. At Arsenal, he now has the ideal setting for doing so. And based on his preseason performances, he may emerge as one of the Premier League's biggest stars.

New signings are performing well
For Arsenal, the fresh additions have been a success thus far. The team once more supported Arteta in transfer window, spending almost £115 million ($138 million) on five new players. They will undoubtedly benefit from this in their league matches. 

While new additions to many other clubs like Matt Turner, Fabio Vieira, and Marquinhos are still getting acclimated to the league, players like Gabriel Jesus and Oleksandr Zinchenko are already accustomed to it and are performing at their best.

Arsenal will greatly benefit from having a guy with Vieira's ability to enter & add more inventiveness. It's possible that Vieira and Odegaard would play as a midfield three or that the 22-year-old could alternate with Bukayo Saka on the right flank. He has been likened to Bernardo Silva. Last season, the Norwegian was mostly responsible for the team's creative workload for Arsenal, & as his performance declined, the entire group suffered as well.

Martin Odegaard, the new club captain, is pleased with how the team is developing.He stated, "So far, the new signings have been pretty fantastic." They are all dedicated workers and have positive attitudes. Each one of them contributes positively to the group. The team's mindset can always be improved, and I believe all of the new players have contributed positively. vitality & prsonality.