By Kalim Ahmed

A video of a man in Pakistan giving electric shocks to a minor is in circulation on social media. The video is shared with the claim that the minor in the video is a “Hindu girl” who is forcefully being converted to Islam.

On, Twitter, the video has been shared by Radharamn Das, who is the vice president and the spokesperson of ISCKON, by journalist Yatharth Sikka, and by the right-wing propaganda website, Kreatley and by various others. It is accompanied by the hashtag “#TheKashmiriFiles”

The video is also viral on Facebook.

Fact-check
We performed a keyword search on Google and came across a news report published in August 2020, about a ‘fake faith healer’ who was arrested for torturing people. The report further mentioned that he was found torturing and electrocuting a young man. This is similar to what can be seen in the viral video.

Taking this clue we performed another keyword search on Google and came across a news report from August 2020, that featured images that are similar to the viral video. As per the news report, the man in the video is Pir Mohammadullah, who was arrested by the Peshawar Police for performing an exorcism on a boy by electrocuting him.

The news report also features a tweet by Peshawar Police.

(Link https://twitter.com/PeshawarCCPO/status/1292477247044161538?t=bhcxaSUkAWD9BXhUrXkSeg&s=19)

We performed another keyword search in Urdu and came across a news report of his arrest in April 2021. In the report, it is mentioned that after Mohammad Ullah’s previous arrest, he was given bail and was strictly instructed not to engage in any such activities. However, he continued his practice and was arrested by the police after multiple public complaints.

The Facebook page of Haji Mohammad Ullah has around 11 lakh followers and he continues to upload videos of him performing exorcisms on people. He also has a YouTube channel with over 80k subscribers.

Read the full story here:- https://www.altnews.in/video-of-a-muslim-faith-healer-performing-exorcism-shared-as-hindu-minor-girl-being-converted-in-pakistan/?utm_source=website&utm_medium=social-media&utm_campaign=newpost