The much-hyped three-day ‘Chintan Shivir (brainstorming session)’ of the Congress party begins in Udaipur today. Congress leaders and workers have pinned too much hopes and expectations on this meeting.

Though there have been a number of suggestions with regard to the functioning of the organisation, no concrete proposals have yet come up on how to revive the party that is witnessing a continuous electoral slide since 2014.

In the past eight years, Congress leaders have visibly lost connect with the ground and there has been no attempt so far to revive the age-old ties with the people.

The Congress has also failed in providing a counter-narrative to the BJP’s aggressive pro-Hindutva agenda. In comparison to the BJP, there is a leadership crisis in the Congress with Rahul Gandhi still reluctant to return as the party chief despite repeated appeals by scores of workers and leaders.

Congress president Sonia Gandhi is trying her best to keep the party going and united. Her daughter Priyanka Gandhi Vadra has been a big disappointment given that there was a lot of hype around her before her formal plunge into politics and the party in January 2019.

The Udaipur session is a huge opportunity for the Congress leaders to suggest a way forward and come up with some solid proposals to take on the BJP’s mighty election machine. Its leaders, especially Prime Minister Narendra Modi, are 24X7 politicians who take every election very seriously.

The Congress also has to take a lead in bringing all the opposition parties together to take on the BJP-led NDA ahead of the next national elections.

Time is the essence here and the Congress needs to move fast in that direction. Besides, the grand old party also needs to give up its status quoist approach. While the BJP changed three chief ministers in as many months in Uttarakhand, it took over a year for the Congress to replace Captain Amarinder Singh in Punjab. The results in both these states are in front of us.

Congress leaders and workers are now awaiting the Udaipur declaration with bated breath to see the grand old party fighting fit once again.