1. D.C. is No. 1 when it comes to being green. In 2017, it became the globe’s first “LEED Platinum” city. Paris may have a climate accord, but it doesn’t have that.

2. Public libraries designed by noted architects. Ludwig Mies van der Rohe’s Martin Luther King Jr. Memorial Library and David Adjaye’s Francis A. Gregory Neighborhood Library are among the most notable. Check them out—and a few books while you’re at it.

3. The National Museum of African American History and Culture. The museum opened to great fanfare in 2016 and is the National Mall’s most recent addition. (Adjaye led the design.) It’s a hugely impactful, deeply personal project that’s been described as the “most impressive and ambitious public building to go up in Washington in a generation.” The museum has already won prestigious architecture awards and is one of D.C.’s major African-American history sites.

4. Wake up and smell the American Beauty roses. It’s the District’s official flower.

5. More than nine in 10 residents live within half a mile of a park. While some of its parks sit on land controlled by the feds, D.C. consistently ranks among the U.S. cities that have the best park systems.

6. The annual High Heel Drag Queen Race in Dupont Circle. All tea, no shade: It’s a blast. D.C. has long boasted a vibrant queer culture, including historic gayborhoods and Pride events spanning over four decades. About one in 10 residents identify as LGBTQ, and the queer scene remains strikingly diverse across the city.

7. Home Rule. Since the 1970s, D.C. has had independent governing authority over its own affairs (with a few anomalies). That means it has a mayor, an attorney general, and a 13-seat council. All are elected positions, as are hyperlocal seats on 40 advisory neighborhood commissions.

8. The eight-foot-tall statue of late “Mayor for Life” Marion S. Barry. Directly outside of the seat of the District government, Barry’s is currently the only statue of an African American on Pennsylvania Avenue. As mayor for four terms and a councilmember for 16 years, Barry helped shape D.C. into what it is today. He died in 2014, leaving behind a complicated but cherished legacy.

9. The D.C. flag is simple and stylish. In 2004, it even won the distinction of best designed U.S. city flag, per the results of an online poll conducted by the North American Vexillological Association. (