That red Saab drove by Yûsuke snails on the road. It’s a longgg journey. Dedicating solid three hours to this movie may be a challenge. But think of it. You can interpret the complexity of human relationships at a slow pace only. Everybody in this car has things buried deeper inside. And they are never in a hurry to remove those scars. They do it at their own pace.

Drive my car - bagged an Oscar for the Best International Feature film this year is adapted from Haruki Murakami’s short story from the book - Men without Women.

Japanese director Ryûsuke Hamaguchi’s filmmaking is lenient to stage. Drive my car is more of a theatre experience on and off stage. Intricate layers of storytelling hooked me to this road movie. Characters with forlorn faces seem oriented to their calm selves. I was thinking how could they control their urge to shout or cry in some scenes. Japanese culture prompts them to suppress emotions?

In the opening scene, Oto (Reika) is telling a story while having sex with her husband. A mysterious story of a girl sneaking into her boyfriend’s room and leaving something unnoticeable there every time. Her stories always had a strong connection with sex. Her husband Yûsuke (Hidetoshi Nishijima) is a successful theatre personality. The couple compliments well in their personal and work lives. It’s so refreshing to listen to those narrations on cassettes.

Look at Yûsuke’s face when he witnesses Oto’s infidelity by chance. Hard to read. He stops at the door for a moment, rather a thick moment, goes down, smokes and drives back to the hotel. Their normal routines continue until he found Oto lying dead at home.

Yûsuke moves to Hiroshima to audition actors for his play Chekhov’s Uncle Vanya. The city, the traffic, and the red Saab drove by Yûsuke - pattern slightly shifts when his new driver Misaki (Tôko Miura) takes charge. I felt the gradually developing bond between Yûsuke and Misaki is the most touching part of this journey. Yûsuke"s 
conversations with Kôji reveal how complex is to look within and let the devil out.