Ponniyin Selvan is again a Mani Ratnam magic on screen. This man knows his actors and how to cast them in exact roles to pull off their best. MR always makes me a captive of his films through luring frames, beautiful people, and beautiful emotions backed by AR Rahman’s enticing music. Look at Madhavan in Alai Payuthey and Arvind Swamy and Manisha Koirala in Bombay. You cannot escape their aura. In PS1, two beautiful women of Indian Cinema prison you under their spell. Their elusive expressions and stunning costumes speak volumes. In a scene where Aishwarya Rai and Trisha come together the script binds them in an unusual pattern of beauty and brains. Aishwarya as Nandini is a she-cobra. Trisha as Kundavai is a cunning politician. She has a dark role in Nandini’s past. Burning wounds transform Nandini’s life. She now is a mastermind behind plots against Cholas. Prince Aditha Karikalan (Vikaram) is still after his lost love Nandini. He fights and wins provinces, but loses his mind. PS1 is weaved by intriguing stories and related human dramas. It steals your brain.Ponniyin Selvan (the son of Ponni) is a huge five-part novel written by Tamil writer Kalki Krishnamurthy on Chola Empire. It was released in 1955. Making a film out of this masterwork serialized in Kalki magazine was a dream project for many veterans in the Tamil film industry. I am happy it finally came out through the master storyteller. Nobody else could have pulled it off this way.Seeing a comet in the sky is believed to bring death to the palace. Who will succeed Emperor Sundara Chola determines the entire plot of PS1. His sons - Karikalan and Arulmozhi Varman are warriors and most eligible for the throne. Madurantakan (Rahman) is a secret candidate in the race is supported by Pandyas. Secret cabinets are on to influence chieftains and strengthen allies. There are spies around. Conspiracy details are hidden even while those are conveyed. War and love embellish the plot. VFX feels real. It is the first Tamil film screened in IMAX format.TBC..