The winning candidates, party members, and voters of the BJP were praised by Prime Minister Narendra Modi for "reposing their faith in BJP in Madhya Pradesh civic polls." following the BJP's stunning victory in the state municipal elections' early results.

However, the BJP had a blow as the Opposition won four local corporations. In the strongholds of Kamal Nath, Chhindwara, Gwalior, and Jabalpur municipal corporations, Congress has dominated. Rani Agarwal, the party's mayoral candidate, defeated Chandra Pratap Vishwakarma, the candidate of the BJP, by 9,159 votes in Singrauli Municipal Corporation, the second-richest local body in the state in terms of revenue, a few days after Delhi Chief Minister and AAP national convenor Arvind Kejriwal held a road show there.

The BJP won a landslide victory in the municipal corporation councillor elections, taking 71 out of 85 wards in Indore, 55 out of 85 wards in Bhopal, 39 out of 79 wards in Jabalpur, 35 out of 66 wards in Gwalior, 37 out of 54 wards in Ujjain, 30 out of 50 wards in Khandwa, 40 out of 48 wards in Sagar, 24 out of 45 in In fact, no party was able to achieve a majority in Chhindwara, Kamal Nath's stronghold, where the BJP won 15 and the Congress won 16, respectively, out of 48 wards. In Satna, out of 45 wards, the BJP won 20 and the Congress won 19, respectively.

Sanjay Shukla, a candidate for mayor of Indore, performed a dharna outside the stadium while claiming harassment by the city's police and administration. He claimed that despite having legitimate passes, Congress staff members were denied access to the stadium where the counting is taking place.

At nine in the morning on Sunday, Madhya Pradesh's municipal elections' first phase's vote-counting began. On July 6, balloting for 133 civic organisations, comprising 86 town councils, 36 municipal councils, and 11 municipal corporations, took place. Out of the 133 municipal organisations, BJP has won 108. 6% of the total electorate participated in the first phase. On July 20, the results of the voting in the second round of the elections for urban bodies will be recorded.