Uganda’s efforts to address vitamin A deficiency miss the mark
Vitamin A deficiency is the leading cause of preventable childhood blindness. It also increases the risk of death from common childhood illnesses such as diarrhoea. There are several ways to fight this public health threat: giving children vitamin A supplements; promoting more diverse diets; fortifying food; and bio-fortifying crops. Nutrition campaigns can go with these efforts.
A number of countries are implementing these measures. But there’s a lack of adequately updated data on vitamin A deficiency and analyses of the impact of such measures. Without this information, countries may be unable to make timely, informed decisions and modify existing strategies.
Uganda is a case in point. Methods for collecting and analysing data on vitamin A deficiency have been inconsistent. So the results vary widely. This makes it difficult to tell whether vitamin A deficiency among Ugandan children is declining or not. Prevalence was estimated at around 28% in 2001, 20% in 2006, 33% in 2011 and 9% in 2016. The World Health Organization categorises prevalence of 2-9% as mild; 10-19% as moderate and over 20% as severe.
It is hard to compare countries when reliable data are missing. But Uganda has been one of UNICEF’s priority countries for its vitamin A supplementation programme since 2000. The country has introduced several measures to address the issue. It distributes vitamin A supplements through healthcare channels; fortifies edible oil, maize flour and wheat flour; and breeds biofortified crops such as sweet potatoes.
My recent study aimed to identify, as far as possible, what’s working in Uganda and what the obstacles are for these programmes.
Food fortification
Food fortification one of the approaches has been mandated in Uganda. It means increasing the level of micronutrients in processed foods. Edible oil, maize flour and wheat flour are fortified with retinyl palmitate, a form of vitamin A.
 Read more: https://theconversation.com/ugandas-efforts-to-address-vitamin-a-deficiency-miss-the-mark-188105the the conversation 