At the peak of India’s second wave, one person died from Covid-19 every three minutes in the country's capital of Delhi. With respect for all human rights across the spectrum including economic, social and cultural rights as well as civil and political rights that will be fundamental to the success of the public health response and recovery from the pandemic so how the Indian scenario is being involved in it.  Life is not the same for the people in India. A nation of 1.3 billion is up against the invisible enemy.

 

The present generation has never witnessed such fear of any pandemic in their lifetime as India prepares its defense against the local translation of the virus public health measures community preparedness and the practice of social distancing have become critical the fight is not going to be easy.

 

This pandemic emerges as a huge burden on the Indian economy, under the economic sectors the central government has devolved powers under the Epidemic Disease Act 1897 to improve preparedness and response efforts with covid19 declared disaster. The National Disaster Response Fund established under the 2005 Disaster Management Act is available to state governments for response measures; they have also settled up the pm care fund. 

 

The proper channelization of the fund towards the covid-19 issues and how to address those issues is based upon the idea how India as a country is dealing with the issue of human rights violation and human rights cases into it so with this move on that the outbreak of covid-19 is equally dangerous for the people from all sectors of society everyone is mandated to follow the protocol of social distancing this pandemic would significantly affect workers in the informal economy and become the potential carriers of covid-19. The long term is still very promising for India.

 

The vaccinations, with more antibodies being present in people at large, and the situation right now, with the proper precautionary measures being put in place, proper restrictions being put in place, the situation could be better, and with this hope that India will soon come out of this pandemic.