When Russia launched its invasion of Ukraine, one potential inroad was from the north, where Russian and Belarusian troops had been conducting an exercise called Allied Resolve.

Missiles fired from bases in Belarus caused extensive damage to the Ukrainian city of Chernihiv. Yet to date, no Belarusian troops have crossed the border into Ukraine and some Belarusian exiles are fighting alongside Ukrainians.

What is Belarus’ role in this conflict? Is it likely to be drawn in further? The West has sanctioned Belarus alongside Russia for the attack on Ukraine. Is this justified?

Lukashenko’s firm grip on power

Belarus has been under the rule of its president, Alexander Lukashenko, since 1994.

In 1999, Lukashenko and his Russian counterpart, Boris Yeltsin, ratified the Russia-Belarus Union. In theory, the union was one of equals.

For much of his rule, Lukashenko has undermined democracy by amending the Belarusian constitution, elevating the Russian language, controlling the media and manipulating elections. In 1999-2000, several of his key opponents were kidnapped and killed. Every presidential election after 2001 ended in brutal attacks on protesters.

For many years, Lukashenko benefited from cheap oil imports from Russia. The oil was refined and exported to Europe. The Russians eventually started to push for higher prices. They also purchased the main pipeline through Belarus in 2011.

In 2020, however, the situation changed. The COVID-19 pandemic devastated Belarus, but Lukashenko chose to ignore it. He dismissed it as a “psychosis” and advised residents to go the countryside and drink vodka or visit saunas.

In response, a grassroots network of self-help organizations developed, particularly in the larger cities.

Belarusian opposition to Lukashenko

In August 2020, Lukashenko ran for president for a sixth term, and for the first time he faced opponents from his own elite.

Read full story at The Conversation: https://theconversation.com/ukraine-war-ordinary-belarusians-are-also-being-victimized-by-russia-179646

Image Courtesy: 
Belarusian volunteers receive military training at the Belarusian Company base in Kyiv, Ukraine, on March 8, 2022. (AP Photo/Efrem Lukatsky)