Uncertainty in the aftermath of Russia’s invasion of Ukraine has wreaked havoc with the international commodity markets.

In the normal pattern of the global economy, commodity exporting countries like New Zealand benefit from a rise in commodity prices and the subsequent strengthening of their currencies.

But these are not normal times.

In 2022, commodity prices have risen but the New Zealand dollar has failed to strengthen. So what is different and what should consumers expect?

The Russian invasion of Ukraine has contributed to extreme uncertainty in financial markets, including the currency markets.

The war resulted in significant increases in global commodity prices, particularly for energy and agricultural commodities.

But on May 13, the value of New Zealand’s currency against the United States dollar dropped to its lowest in two years. The New Zealand dollar was buying US68.32 cents on January 1, peaked at US69.75c on March 31, and then dropped to US62.39c on May 13.

Graphic with stock market superimposed over Ukrainian flag.
Uncertainty around Russia’s invasion of Ukraine has caused the price of commodities to increase. Getty Images
Historically unusual
Again, this imbalance between the commodity markets and our currency is not normal.

The New Zealand dollar is classified as a commodity currency, along with the Australian dollar, Canadian dollar and Norwegian krone. Primary commodities (dairy, meat and timber in the case of New Zealand) constitute a substantial part of these nations’ exports.

For countries like New Zealand, the changes in global commodity prices are one of the main drivers of the country’s terms of trade fluctuations and, therefore, the currency value.

Generally, the value of the currency – the exchange rate – increases when export commodity prices increase. The New Zealand dollar, for example, tends to increase in value when global dairy prices increase.

But recent research has revealed a blip in the normal pattern.

The authors studied the relationship between the changes in value of 31 currencies (including the New Zealand dollar) and commodity prices over the past ten years. The analysis confirmed the traditional positive relationship between the changes in the currency values and commodity prices.

Read more - https://theconversation.com/the-russian-invasion-of-ukraine-made-everyone-nervous-upending-trade-patterns-for-exporting-countries-like-new-zealand-182857