A place’s climate is defined by the average atmospheric and seasonal patterns studied over an average of 30 years. A long-term shift in the climate of the region, including temperature, rainfall, and seasonal patterns is known as Climate Change.
 
It is generally referred to as the overuse of fossil fuels leading to extensive emissions of greenhouse gases that fill the layers of the atmosphere with particulate matters trapping the sunlight on the planet, thus, leading to global warming. The warming of the planet disrupts the natural oceanic cycle, further altering the winds and humidity leading to hurricanes, storms, drought,etc.
 
Over time, industries and transport sectors have been blamed for the exploitation of natural resources for manufacturing thousands of products and using millions of tons of fuel for transportation services. However, the onus of saving climate also falls on the consumer side. The supply is heavily influenced by the demand, and with the demand for each product,millions of resources are invested for its production.
 
As consumers, we often do not care to see what happens with the products once we are done using them. In our day to day lives, they go in the trash, but after the waste pickers collect them, we do not know what goes into recycling and what goes into landfills. Now, burning waste or improperly disposing of waste adds various toxic gases to the environment which aren’t only unhealthy for nature but harmful to humans as well. But that’s not it, which each product or service that we demand, we are adding to the climate change since we are demanding the use of fossil fuels in terms of energy required for the production, processing and delivery.
The concept of ‘Reuse’ is not only to limit the waste we are generating but also to reduce the burden on the planet for manufacturing it. Therefore, it is essential that before we make a purchasing decision, we understand its utility, durability and impact on the environment. This is where waste management plays an important role. Waste management is not only concerned with the management of existing waste but also reduce what becomes waste.