Indian folk metal band Bloodywood’s debut album ‘Rakshak’ is certainly praise worthy. Starting out on YouTube as a parody band, these guys have come a long way. Packed with aggression, melody, heaviness and groove, the album features heavy metallic riffs with traditional Indian folk instrumentation and rap verses. Normally, nu metal has barely ever worked as a genre, but in this case it works probably in the best way possible. Rap, electronic music, Indian folk music and heavy metal, what an unusual combo, and one that slams hard as hell!

Rakshak is an altogether new form of folk metal that is part crushing heavy metal riffs packed with infectious grooves of Rage Against The Machine, part rap, electronic music with the early nu metal style of Linkin Park, wackiness of System of A Down and some metalcore sprinkling of Hatebreed. Rakshak has it all, it is heavy, slamming, aggressive, groovy, melodic and folky. This is certainly the combination of skill and originality that heavy metal needs today, and furthermore, it also truly represents the creativity and the latent talent of the Indian metal scene.

Guitarist Karan Katiyar is the driving force behind the band, be it his crushing metal riffs or his incredible flute playing, particularly his flute solos. Jayanth Bhadula is one talented vocalist, his clean vocals are amazing, but the guy’s guttural screaming is something else, hell Randy Blythe from Lamb Of God ought to be careful, he has found a great contender. The rap of Raoul Kerr deserves a special mention. Rap hardly works in metal, but the strength and passion behind Kerr’s rapping is really something. The aggression in his voice is a bit reminiscent of Ice T’s rough and emotion packed gangsta style.

Opening from ‘Gaddar’ the album does not let up its aggression, even if it is with the mellow tracks like ‘Zanjeero Se’, ‘Rakshak’ like the elephant on the album cover strides with great purpose. There is enough stuff to headbang to and break your neck be it with ‘Machi Basad’ or ‘Dana Dan’ while there is plenty of emotion to find in ‘Yaad’ or ‘Endurant’.



Score: 9/10