By Akansha Srivastava

After winning a string of new businesses which include several traditional and new-age clients, Starcom is all set to target the app-based businesses category for fuelling further growth. Starcom will leverage its tech, data and digital capabilities to deliver enhanced impact for clients.

In an interview with BestMediaInfo.com, Niti Kumar, COO, Starcom, said the agency is on a high growth trajectory and capable of serving the evolving requirements of clients, "The focus is on servicing the clients and keeping up with their requirements. The spaces we are seeing a lot of actions are data, technology, automation, eCommerce and content."

Excerpts:

How was 2021 for Starcom from the business perspective and how do you see it panning out this year? Has the business surpassed pre-Covid levels?

The silver lining of the Covid-19 period has been that we have seen a lot of resurgences. In 2020, everyone was figuring out how to deal with Covid. But once everyone got the hang of it, 2021 became a great year. The ad spends bounced back. We won a lot of new businesses in 2021. We have been getting good organic growth from our existing clients that increased spending on the digital, eCommerce and content front. The agency surpassed the pre-Covid levels in the middle of 2021. 

Recently, we won many new businesses, including Stellantis, Mobikwik, Fresh To Home, Abbott, Vadilal Ice Cream, and XYXX. New business is one area around which we are quite upbeat. In our case, the share of digital businesses is very high in comparison to traditional businesses because we have several app economy clients who do a lot of digital and integrated marketing. Along with new business wins, we also have long-standing relationships with brands including Dabur, Visa, Jeep, Axis Bank and Nykaa. We have got a large base of new-age clients and that’s the space we want to grow and develop even more going forward. 

Read the full story here:- https://bestmediainfo.com/2022/04/focusing-on-new-age-app-clients-for-growth-says-niti-kumar-coo-starcom/