When Spotify started in 2008 with millions of tracks and podcast titles available in both its free and subscription versions, it revolutionised the way we listen to music. Spotify is a "digital music, podcast, and video service that provides access to millions of songs and other content from producers all over the world," according to its website. Today, Spotify has a sizable audience of 406 million listeners in 184 markets.

By adding new features and updating the app's tools and interface, the developers have been able to continuously improve both the creator and user experiences. For instance, new features for 2021 included video podcasts, polls, Q&As, Blend shared playlists, and Hey Spotify, a voice-activated in-app experience.

Here are the latest spotify updates: 

1. Karaoke Mode 
Late in June, Spotify began distributing a karaoke feature to users.

Anyone can sing along to the tune of their favourite songs with this option. For their assistance, song lyrics are displayed on the screen. According to the new function, singing quality is also rated and is given a score out of 100.

Users do not need to be premium subscribers to use the function because it is free for everyone.

2. Icon Redesign 
The typography of a brand has a significant impact on its branding and recall value. In light of this, Spotify updated the look of its icons six years after its significant redesign in 2016.

Once more, the iconographer Rob Bartlett and the app's design systems team Encore Foundation collaborated to produce a new set of icons. To improve readability, the new icons will feature bolder strokes. This indicates that the strokes have become heavier and thicker.

3. Featured Curators & Spotify HiFi
Spotify is always overflowing with innovative and unique content. Spotify is now, however, taking a closer look at playlists made by its users and influencers.

In April, Spotify began testing the Featured Curators pilot, which would spotlight both Spotify-created playlists and well-liked user playlists already on the platform.

This functionality is made available to a select group of curators that have developed fan bases and well-liked playlists on the homepage and suggested in-app.