Siddi’s of Gujarat’s Gir forest – Youth of marginalized African tribe eyeing sports for better life
Lobi Shahnaz, 20, a junior national-level athlete, belongs to the African descendants Siddi community settled in Gujarat’s Gir Forest region. They were brought to India centuries ago to serve as soldiers and slaves. 
The community hardly possesses any agricultural land and majority of them work as labourers for survival and living in poor condition.
A daughter of a labourer, Lobi, who hails from a village Jambur – the biggest settlement of the marginalized African tribe in Gir Forest, works as a sports teacher in a government school in Junagarh district – a two hour drive from her village.
She earns Rs 15,000 monthly and with this she is able to support her family and fund her shot put training.
Like Lobi, hundreds of kids from the deprived Siddi community are looking towards the sports for a better life.
“The conditions in our village are not favorable to have a better future and majority of Siddi community in our area works as a labourer. So, the youth are left with two choices, either to go for odd jobs or take a sports route like me,” said Lobi. “Since the youngsters from our area got admission in state-run residential academies where they get free boarding and loading and good education, many parents wants their kids to pursue sports,” added international judoka Rohit Majgul, 18, who also hails from Jambur village in Gir Somnaath district of Gujarat. He along with Wajid from Siddi community is part of the state judo team in the National Games.
Rohit, who is a son of a labourer, won bronze in 66kg in the Games.
Like Rohit, another international judo player from the Siddi community Makawana Maheruk is also a product of a district-level physical training proven talent programme of the Gujurat Sports Authority.
Makawana hails from Talala village and her father is a sarpanch – village head.
“After I made it to the Indian team many girls from my village have started judo. In coming time you will see more players from my village winning laurels for the country,” said 17-year-old Makawana. 