Stamford Bridge hosts one of the most awaited games of football across Europe today. The 
atomosphere in London will be buzzing when Real Madrid walk out for revenge. Emotions 
notwithstanding, there are multiple ways in which either team can take advantage of the 
other's fallacies here.

Wouldn't hurt to take a look at what can and cannot make a difference tonight. Read along!

#5. Who wins the Midfield Battle?:

For the visitors, patience is growing thin on the old guard. Toni Kroos and Luka Modrić are 
phenomenal footballers and masterful technicians. Essentially, they can play around 
Chelsea in a 5 a-side and not have to chase the ball once.

This however, is a game of football highly physical and brutally demanding to the core. Like demonstrated in last year's tie, Chelsea's midfielders are direct, pacey and can run through the Madrid Wall with ease.

Federico Valverde's reintroduction may change things, but he doesn't quite influence the 
game the same way as a wide midfielder/full back. Chelsea's problems are more 
straightforward. For Tuchel, It's two man midfield vs a three man block.

Playing Kante alongside Kovacic would mean Jorginho goes to the bench. But that brings 
infinitely more possibilities with Mason Mount allowed to roam freely ahead of the two 
deeper midfielders, linking with the likes of Havertz and Pulisic.

Regardless, with Jorginho Tuchel's side will exercise considerably more control over the ball.

Maybe being rough and tough isn't the best idea in the first leg at home for the Blues. Setting up with Jorginho deeper than his two colleagues should be the way to go about things, as was the case against LOSC Lille.

#4.  Are Chelsea's full back's as much of a threat?:

The defending champions of Europe have their fair share of tricks up their sleeve. They can 
be an intense pressing side, or a defensive wall, or an elite counter-attacking team.

What doesn't change throughout however, is Thomas Tuchel's use of two aggressive full 
back's either side of his Midfield. To dominate the flanks would mean sending Ancelotti's 
defence further back and narrow (their usual reaction to teams who pin back their full backs).