Alcohol has earned a bad reputation. While it's true, in excess, alcohol can be detrimental to your health. However, in moderation, some alcohols can have health benefits. 

Red Wine: 
Antioxidants included in red wine can save your cells from oxidative stress, and polyphenols can improve heart health. These are also present in rose and white wine, albeit in lesser amounts.

Red wine has been linked in studies to enhancing cardiovascular fitness, bone density, and mental health. 

Champagne: 
Champagne is made from grapes that are rich in phenolic compounds, an antioxidant kind that helps improve brain health and possibly lower the incidence of dementia.

In fact, a 2013 research on animals discovered that champagne boosted rodents' memory as they became older. Researchers thought the results were encouraging and mirrored similar effects for other antioxidant-rich meals like blueberries, even though they have not yet been verified for human brains.

Tequila: 
Consuming the agave tequila can boost calcium absorption and enhance bone health, according to studies on mice. Tequila use, on the other hand, is unlikely to actually aid in the treatment of bone diseases like osteoporosis or a calcium deficit in people.

Whiskey: 
We've all heard about the anti-oxidant advantages of red wine, and studies have shown that whiskey may have the same effect.

In fact, the study came to the conclusion that moderate alcohol consumption combined with higher antioxidant intake may assist lower risk for heart disease.
Blood sugar levels can benefit from whiskey as well.

Kombucha: 
Tea fermentation is used to create the beverage kombucha. It typically contains such a small amount of alcohol that it isn't considered an alcoholic beverage.

However, some producers of kombucha are now making hard kombucha, which has a strength of alcohol comparable to beer or hard seltzer. Regular kombucha offers several health advantages, including lowering cholesterol and blood pressure and improving digestion.
Kombucha is also a popular probiotic