Leaked files from uber reveal how top politicians have helped them and how far they went to avoid justice. Emmanuel Macron and ex-EU commissioner Neelie Kroes have aided uber in all ways possible. Moreover, the shocking information is how the owner of the uber firm ordered the use of a "kill switch" to deter raiding police from accessing computers.

The Uber Files are a trove of more than 124,000 records, including 83,000 emails and 1,000 other files involving conversations, spanning 2013 to 2017.

They were leaked to the Guardian and shared with the International Consortium of Investigative Journalists and several media organizations including BBC Panorama. They reveal, how a $90m-a-year lobbying and public relations effort even used politicians to help in its campaign to cause disturbances in Europe's taxi industry.

Uber has responded to the situation by saying that it was all in the past and uber is a different company now. Mr. Macron - now president - was on first-name terms with Uber's controversial boss Travis Kalanick, and told him he would restore laws in the firm's favor. 

Formerly there was criticism about the user's public relations now it has been revealed how far it went. They show how ex-EU digital commissioner Neelie Kroes, one of Brussels' top officials, was in talks to join Uber before her term ended - and then secretly lobbied for the firm, in potential violation of EU ethics rules.

At the time, Uber was not just one of the world's fastest-growing companies - it was one of the most controversial, full of court cases, allegations of sexual harassment, and data breach scandals.

Eventually, shareholders had enough, and Travis Kalanick was forced out in 2017. Emails say that Ms. Kroes called ministers and other members of the government to convince them to back down during the raid. During another raid a week later, Ms. Kroes again reached a Dutch minister the Uber Files show, and, in the words of an email, "harassed" the head of the Dutch civil service.

Read More: Uber Files: Massive leak reveals how top politicians secretly helped Uber
https://www.bbc.co.uk/news/business-62057321