Two years of COVID-19 postponements and a Twenty20 World Cup have handed Australia's cricketers the busiest summer in the country's history.

Cricket Australia confirmed a cluttered schedule on Monday, with a whopping 27 men's fixtures beginning with the first top-end tour since 2008 in August and September.

West Indies and South Africa will visit for test series, while the former will join New Zealand and Zimbabwe in playing a catch-up white-ball series before the home T20 World Cup that was originally slated for 2020.

Early-season cricket will be played in Townsville and Cairns against Zimbabwe and New Zealand respectively, before Australia leaves for a three-match Twenty20 series in India.

West Indies and England then play a white-ball series either side of the October-November Twenty20 World Cup, with the English to be coached by Australia's former women's mentor Matthew Mott.

Notably, the test summer begins in Perth on November 30 against West Indies, before a pink-ball test in Adelaide from December 8.

Brisbane hosts the first test against South Africa on December 17, before Melbourne and Sydney hold the traditional Boxing Day and New Year's tests.

The schedule makes for a shift away from the Gabba hosting the first test of the summer, but means the first two tests are beamed into the east coast in evening prime-time before the Christmas period begins.

"We are hosting a record six touring nations to Australia this season, in addition to the ICC Men's T20 World Cup," CA CEO Nick Hockley said.

"We are delighted that test cricket is coming back to Perth Stadium for the first test of the summer versus the West Indies, after almost three years without international cricket.

"And we look forward to hosting South Africa over Boxing Day and New Year for the first time since 2008."

The figure of 27 matches for the men does not include any T20 World Cup warm-up fixtures, or finals games if the defending champions qualify.

The summer therefore easily tops the previous record of 24 matches in 2014-15, which also included a home World Cup in the one-day format.