Nutritional intake is undoubtedly an important component that has an impact on physical performance of all athletes, women as well as men. Clearly, this fact is recognized and is acted upon by the athlete in seeking nutritional advice from sources reliable and otherwise in the hope of finding a food or nutrient that provides the "competitive edge." The nutritional advice that will best serve female athletes in their physical endeavors and in their health is based on a few sound nutritional principles. The nutrients required for physically active women are the same as for women in the general population and for men.
Although the nutrients required are the same, physical activity does influence the amount of some nutrients needed by female athletes. In general, female athletes will need more energy, water, sodium, potassium, and certain vitamins (thiamin, riboflavin, niacin) than nonathletic females. 
Fortunately, this does not require special dietary adjustments, since when a balanced diet is eaten to meet additional energy needs, the requirements for sodium, potassium, and vitamins are usually more than met. The female athlete should be encouraged to give special attention to two nutrients, water and iron. Any female athlete participating in physical activity causing significant sweat loss should understand the importance of fluid balance and how to properly rehydrate during and following exercise. Iron is not required at increased levels for the female athlete; however, it is frequently limited in the diet of women in general. 
If the diet is inadequate and biochemical abnormalities are found, supplementation should be considered under the guidance of a physician. Lastly, although studies repeatedly show the general adequacy of female athletes' diet, there is evidence that some individual athletes do consume a marginal diet. By evaluating the typical pattern of dietary intake, these athletes can be identified and provided with nutritional counseling or supplementation, or both.
Sources - https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/6571237/#:~:text=Although%20the%20nutrients%20required%20are,%2C%20niacin)%20than%20nonathletic%20females.