Recent evidence shows the scale of sexual violence against women and children in Australia has been severely underestimated. Family violence is a key driver.
Yet, young women are currently invisible in responses to such violence. Our research sought to understand why young women’s experiences are so overlooked. We found that young women have typically been sidelined in approaches to family violence, and need to be given specific regard in any strategies to address it.
Young women’s over-representation in statistics
Research from Australia’s National Research Organisation for Women’s Safety (ANROWS) found 51% of women in their 20s have experienced sexual violence.
Further, the Australian Institute of Health and Welfare estimates 2.2 million Australians (12% of the population) have had experiences of sexual violence, threats and/or assault since the age of 15.
While physical assault rates for men have almost halved since 2008-09, the largest reported increase in physical assault is that experienced by young women aged 18 to 29. There are also increasing rates of sexual assault in Australia. Recent data show this rising for the tenth year in a row, from 83 to 121 victim-survivors per 100,000 since 2011.
Australian and global data show most violence against women is perpetrated by a family member or intimate partner (49%).
Despite experiencing unique and serious safety risks, young women are almost invisible in public debate on the issue.
Young women’s absence from discussions
Our recently published research found young women lack voice and visibility in discussions about family violence in Australia, and particularly intimate partner violence.
This is a considerable problem, as young women are overrepresented in family violence and sexual assaults statistics. National police data show young women aged 15-19 are more likely than any other age group of women to experience sexual assault.
Although there are no national data specifically focused on recording the intimate partner violence experiences of young women, national secondary school health surveys show 61% of young women aged between 14 and 18 report unwanted sex due to partner present.
Read more: https://theconversation.com/when-it-comes-to-family-violence-young-women-are-too-often-ignored-190547