By Medha Dutta Yadav

After their daughter was born in 2018, Delhi resident Umang Narain and his wife Disha decided to go vegan. Umang had been a practising vegetarian for his entire life, unlike Disha, who would enjoy a plate of biryani or tandoori chicken every once in a while. But the couple wanted to bring about a conscious change to their lifestyle, and going vegan seemed the best option. Their only worry was whether they would be able to do justice to their growing child’s dietary needs.

“We were not really worried about going vegan. With plant-based proteins and even mock meats available in the market, we did not see any problem with our diet. But the fact that our daughter Shaivika needed a healthy and nutritious diet, got us a little sceptical about the worth of going vegan,” says Umang. The couple momentarily decided to not follow a vegan diet for their daughter. But a meeting with the nutritionist convinced them that a vegan diet could be wholesome for their growing child.

Kunal Mutha, Founder and Director of Only Earth, a vegan-plant-based milk brand, says, “Introducing more plant-based foods into your child’s diet will help them to stay energised throughout the day and keep them at bay from many lifestyle disorders such as asthma, diabetes and heart diseases.

Mothers are often concerned about their child’s nutrition especially when it comes to calcium and protein. This, unfortunately, makes them feed their children a diet dominant of meat, dairy and eggs, the goodness of which can be found in a vegan diet minus the negatives.”

As per a recent study from the University of Oxford, the majority of the food sourced from the animal agriculture industry consists of hormones and growth promoters which enter the human body and cause major health diseases.

In contrast, whole food and plant-based food are credited by nutritionists and doctors to reverse many lifestyle diseases. Leafy green vegetables, tofu, beans, nuts and fortified foods contain a very high amount of calcium and protein which is sufficient for a child to lead a healthy life.

Read the full story here:- https://www.newsdrum.in/food/healthy-lifestyle-is-vegan-food-good-for-your-child-42979.html