Generally throughout his career, Djokovic has taken a few weeks off after the Australian Open before returning for the ATP Masters tournaments in Indian Wells and Miami in March.

Non-US citizens must be fully vaccinated to travel to the United States, according to the US Department of State.

"Foreign national air travellers to the United States will be required to be fully vaccinated and to provide proof of vaccination status prior to boarding an airplane to fly to the United States, with only limited exceptions," it states.

Limited exceptions include people with "documented medical contraindications to receiving a Covid-19 vaccine" and those whose entry would be in the national interest.

After Miami, the season moves into the European clay-court swing. The first key tournament is in Monte Carlo, where Djokovic resumed his 2021 season after winning the Australian Open two months earlier.

Current rules state unvaccinated people can enter the principality if they have proof of a positive PCR test more than 11 days ago and in the past six months, but must otherwise complete a quarantine period that can be cut short by tests.

After Monte Carlo, there are two more Masters events in Rome and Madrid before the European clay-court season culminates with the French Open in Paris at the end of May - and fresh doubt has been thrown on Djokovic's participation in that event.

Unvaccinated travellers have been able to enter Spain, France and Italy in various circumstances, enabled by PCR and antigen tests while, potentially, having to complete quarantine periods.

However, on Monday, the French sports ministry said there would be no exemption from the country's new vaccine pass law.

The law, passed by the French government on Sunday, will require all athletes wishing to compete in France to be vaccinated against Covid-19.

"The rule is simple. The vaccine pass will be imposed, as soon as the law is promulgated, in establishments that were already subject to the health pass," the ministry said.

This will apply to everyone who is a spectator or  sportsperson  until further notice.

However, the ministry added that the situation may change before the French Open gets under way.