The 2003-04 season – or The Invincibles season – featured many remarkable games for Arsenal as they cruised through a league campaign without defeat. One of those came early in the season, away at Manchester United. The scoreless draw – famously dubbed the ‘Battle of Old Trafford,’ lives on in infamy. 
The rivalry between Manchester United and Arsenal was the most intense in the Premier League era. Every Premier League title had been won by either club (except Blacburn 1995). The rivalry only intensified with the arrival of Arsene Wenger. The two sides had just met in April 2003. The match ended 2-2 and saw Sol Campbell sent off for violent conduct against Ole Gunnar Solskjaer. The wounds of that encounter were still fresh as Arsenal had lost an 8-point lead in March to lose the title by 5. The Community Shield also featured the two teams and was another feisty affair. Francis Jeffers was sent off in the game and Campbell received a 3-match ban for violent conduct. United won on penalties. 
The Battle of Old Trafford occurred on 21 September 2003. It was characterised by excessive fouling, resulting in eight yellows and fines for seven players by the FA. The game passed without incident till things came to a head in the final quarter. Ruud van Nistelrooy jumped onto Patrick Vieira’s back while contesting for an aerial ball. Viera fell down and attempted to kick back at him. Both players were booked, and it was Vieira’s second yellow. In the final minute, Diego Forlan was deemed to have been brought down in the penalty area by Martin Keown. Van Nistelrooy – who had missed his last two penalties – shot against the bar. After the final whistle, Van Nistelrooy was heckled by Keown, Lauren, Ray Parlour, Ashley Cole, and Kolo Toure. He was escorted away by his captain but the situation escalated with other United players getting involved, resulting in the post-match punishments. It may be for the best that such intense personal rivalries between players are consigned to the past, but it remains fascinating to watch and wonder how football was experienced and consumed a gener