Verse 30 in Surah An-Nur in the Holy Qur'an says: "Say to the believing men that they should lower their gaze and guard their modesty; that will make for greater purity for them; and Allah is well acquainted with all that they do."
Two verses have been especially dedicated to purdah in the Holy Qur'an. One says: "And say to the believing women that they should lower their gaze and guard their modesty; that they should not display their beauty and ornaments except what (must ordinarily) appear thereof; that they should draw their veils over their bosoms and not display their beauty except to their husbands, their fathers, their husbands' fathers, their sons, their brothers and brothers' sons, or their sisters' sons" … (Surah An-Nur, Verse 31).
The second one is: "O Prophet! Tell thy wives and daughters, and the believing women, that they should cast their outer garments over their persons (when abroad); that is most convenient, that they should be known (as such) and not molested. And Allah is Oft-Forgiving, Most Merciful" … (Surah Al-Ahzab, Verse 59).
This is Quran talking about dress code of both men and women. Lower ur gaze to both men and women, guard ur modesty to both men and women. Wear loose clothes to men and women. 
However for women it is specified not to show ur beauty to people and draw veils over their blossoms.  When the above verse was revealed it is said the wives of prophet covered their faces. Many Islamic scholars also say that word used was kimar which means a cloth which covers ur head. 
The above two verses are interpreted in many ways . While some people believe it is covering ur face/body other feel that face need not be covered. However head cover is most agreed upon.
Besides Quran, Hadith sayings of prophet(PBUH) are   Important.
The Prophet said: Allah does not accept the prayer of a woman who has reached puberty unless veiled.
The above is open to interpretations but the question here is the right to make a choice
Not loose translation of iIslamic scriptures to suit ur purpose.