With the number of COVID-19 cases dropping, Emily Safrin did something she hadn't done since the outbreak began two years ago: she put her anxieties aside and went to a concert.

The fully vaccinated and boosted restaurant waitress intended to keep her mask on, but she ripped it off when reggaeton superstar Bad Bunny took the stage and the crowd's excitement skyrocketed. She was soon out and about with pals, uncovered, in a hip Portland neighborhood.

After a long, dark period of loss, terror, and deep concern about the future, relief and optimism are creeping back in two years after the Globe Health Organization proclaimed COVID-19 a pandemic, transforming the world overnight.

On the two-year anniversary of the pandemic's onset, the world is finally emerging from a hard winter dominated by the extremely contagious omicron variety, giving a sense of relief.

The WHO released its declaration on March 11, 2020, emphasizing the gravity of the threat posed by a virus that has wrecked havoc mostly in Italy and China up to that moment. On that date, the United States had 38 confirmed coronavirus deaths and 1,300 confirmed cases, but reality was beginning to set in: stocks plummeted, schools closed, and people began donning masks. The NBA canceled games in a matter of hours, Chicago's massive St. Patrick's Day parade was canceled, and late-night comedians started recording from empty studios — or even their own homes.

However, things are looking up.

According to data from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, COVID-19 hospitalizations have dropped by 80% in the last six weeks across the United States since the pandemic peaked in mid-January, reaching the lowest levels since July 2021. Since last summer, case counts have been on a downward trend to their lowest levels. Even the mortality count, which usually follows cases and hospitalizations, has dropped dramatically in the previous month.

Share your thoughts on Covid ? How did change your life ? What do you expect next?