According to rumours in Italy, Arsenal has made contact with Lautaro Martinez's agent as they consider a summer transfer approach for the Inter Milan striker.
When Alexandre Lacazette's contract expires at the conclusion of the season, the Gunners are expected to pursue a new centre-forward. Mikel Arteta's choices up front are already limited, since Pierre-Emerick Aubameyang left for Barcelona in the January window after being stripped of his captaincy a month earlier.

Martinez, 24, was linked with Arsenal and local rivals Tottenham Hotspur last year after scoring 17 goals to help Inter win Serie A. He eventually decided to stay at San Siro and signed a new long-term contract that runs through 2026.

The Argentina international has 14 goals in 27 league games this season, and he was also on the scoresheet with a spectacular shot during Inter's Champions League match against Liverpool. Despite agreeing to a contract extension with Martinez only a few months ago, the Italian giants are ready to sell their star if a bid in the range of €70 million (£59 million) comes in. According to CalcioMercato, Arsenal and Atletico Madrid have emerged as the two most prominent probable destinations for Martinez.
According to the report, Arsenal officials have spoken with the player's agency, but Atletico Madrid are ready to revive their interest ahead of the summer transfer season.

Martinez, however, is "glad at Inter" despite rising interest in his services, according to his agency. According to Football Italia, Alejandro Camano told Fcinter1908, "Lautaro doesn't think about himself, he only thinks about Inter." "He wants to assist and make supporters happy." Inter haven't scored many goals recently, but it's just a matter of time before they start scoring again.

"Lautaro wants Inter to win, he is not interested in personal success. We must remain calm because Lautaro is happy at Inter and is happy with Inter fans." Although Martinez has a fine goal tally this season, he has only found the back of the net three times in Serie A since the turn of the year, scoring a hat-trick in a 5-0 thrashing of Salernitana.