The First American woman who went to space, Sally Ride broke the highest Glass ceiling. She is an astronaut and physicist. She is also the third woman in space. She was also a member of the LGBTQIA+ community. She served on the committees that interrogated the Challenger and Columbia Space Shuttle disasters, the only person to participate in both. 

She was also very good at sports during her college life. She won all six of her intercollegiate tennis matches and became the Eastern Intercollegiate Women's Singles champion. She becomes an exception at her time by choosing Shakespeare and Quantum mechanics as her subjects and scored As in both. She was the only woman majoring in physics at the University of California at that period.

Ride's was one of 8,079 applications NASA received by the June 30, 1977 deadline. She then became one of 208 finalists. She was the only woman among the twenty applicants in the sixth group, all applicants for mission specialist positions. Everything wasn't easy she was a source of attention and a matter of sexist discussions. The ride was asked questions such as, "Will the flight affect your reproductive organs?" and "Do you weep when things go wrong on the job?" She insisted that she saw herself in only one way—as an astronaut. NASA was still adjusting to female astronauts, and engineers had asked Ride to assist them in developing a "space makeup kit", assuming it'd be something a woman would want on board. 

Admist at these she flew on the Space Shuttle Challenger lifted off from the Kennedy Space Centre (KSC) on June 18, 1983, Ride became the first American woman to fly in space and the third woman overall.

She received numerous awards; the National Space Society's von Braun Award, the Lindbergh Eagle, and the NCAA's Theodore Roosevelt Award. She was inducted into the National Women's Hall of Fame and the Astronaut Hall of Fame and was awarded the NASA Space Flight Medal twice. Also, the first known LGBTQIA+ person to appear on the US Currency. She broke too many ceilings as many who criticised her couldn't even count. Her valiant spirit is something Americans should never forget.
‌