The mayor urged lawmakers to take “sensible” action to combat gun violence and hate speech on Sunday after ten people were shot down in his community in a racially motivated attack. 

“The thing that this tragedy shows us is that this can occur anywhere. It’s not just Buffalo,” Mayor Byron Brown, speaking on NBC’s “Meet the Press"

“No community seemingly is safe from these mass shootings. It’s not just Buffalo, New York, it’s communities in every corner of this country that are unsafe with guns and with the hateful ideology that has been allowed to proliferate on social media and the internet,” Brown said in a separate interview with CBS News’ “Face the Nation.”

The 18-year-old suspect was arrested as per the authorities he had researched local demographics, and searched for places with a high concentration of Black residents, before travelling several hours to Buffalo with an assault rifle and a tactical vest.
 
Mayor brown rather than taking it as a racial issue urged on gun violence and curbing it.  He said our focus should be on sensible gun control. Mass shootings happen in many places for a variety of reasons hence it is what should be considered.

according to a tally by the Gun Violence Archive, the Buffalo mass shooting was the 198th this year. It was also the deadliest this year.

The suspect's plan shows how easy and how can access guns and assault weapons in America with the so-called gun control. The gun was legally purchased in Newyork but it had been altered with “illegal magazines” that are available in other states, like nearby Pennsylvania, said New York, Gov. Kathy Hochul.


The politicians keep on claiming they will do their best to curb gun violence while is this happening. Now guns have given access to racists to show their extreme hatred. This hate spread and violence are not new in America, just that we can ignore social media messages but can we fight a man with an assault weapon on street killing targeted people of a race? Is this the America we wished for? Do gun supporters claim this is their fundamental right supposed to do?