Afghan women have been standing up to the Taliban on many issues ever since the Islamist force took control of the country in late August. The issues ranged from closing higher education for women to asking those working in jobs to stay at home.

Now they are back on the streets protesting against a Taliban diktat asking women to wear a burqa or hijab. The posters show women wearing burqa and black ‘chador’ as ideal women. Text on the posters proclaims that "according to Shari'a law, a Muslim woman must observe the hijab.” The diktat came from the much-dreaded Afghan Ministry for the Promotion of Virtue and Prevention of Vice when it had posters all over Kabul and other places ordering women to cover up. (https://gandhara.rferl.org/a/taliban-orders-women-wear-hijab/31647808.html)

The protests unnerved the Taliban is evident from the fact that one of the prominent activists, Tamana Zaryabi Paryani, who led the protests, was held by the Taliban. Her video calling for help while her home was raided went viral on social media.

The Taliban denied that they arrested or detained some activists, but one of the spokespersons for the Taliban “insulting the religious and national values of the Afghan people is not tolerated anymore.” This came after the protesting women burned a burqa during protests in Kabul. (https://www.outlookindia.com/international/taliban-arrest-woman-activist-her-sisters-for-protesting-against-hijab--news-44756)

The Taliban forces on January 16 had used pepper spray and mild violence to break the women protesting against hijab diktat and access to education.

The protests have unnerved the Taliban so much that counter protests have been held. Several hundred men held demonstrations with slogans like "We want Sharia law" and "We want the hijab.” (https://www.yahoo.com/news/taliban-stage-protest-denouncing-disrespect-200949414.html?)

At a time when the Taliban is speaking to various international organisations for aid, one of the things they don’t want hogging the international headlines is the news of protests by women. Taliban is showing signs of nervousness.

Read more:

Afghan women driven to risk Taliban’s wrath by dressing as men:
https://www.thenationalnews.com/world/asia/2022/01/25/afghan-women-driven-to-risk-talibans-wrath-by-dressing-as-men/