By Shreyoshi Guha

Alongside the critically acclaimed Defender 90 and Defender 110, the Defender 130 adds another dimension to the all-conquering family of all-terrain vehicles, with adventuring opportunities for up to eight adults across three rows of full-size seating.

Like the Defender 90 and 110, the new 130 body design borrows its name from the original Defender family, inspired by the longest model in the line-up. It allows customers to effortlessly transport up to eight people across any terrain and is the ultimate demonstration of Defender’s breadth of talents.

A host of exterior and interior design enhancements and technologies distinguish New Defender 130, uniquely balancing comfort with customary Defender durability and capability.

Nick Collins, Executive Director, Vehicle Programmes, Land Rover, said, “New Defender 130 brings a new dimension of capability to our most durable and rugged family of vehicles. Its spacious interior welcomes and transports up to eight people in supreme comfort, enabling unparalleled sophisticated adventuring opportunities for families, with unique design signatures to create a distinct New Defender experience.”

Defender 130 has its own colour palette, with a new, exclusive Sedona Red option ensuring the 130 stands out in the line-up. The exterior is complemented by the Extended Bright Pack – available in addition to the existing Bright Pack – which provides a distinct exterior design with Ceres Silver Satin finish around all lower body cladding and front and rear skid plates in Noble Chrome.

Inside, thoughtful storage and convenience solutions are provided for every passenger across all three rows of seating. This ensures Defender 130 caters for passengers in every seat, with effortless access to the spacious three-abreast third row in a bright and airy cabin.

The interior design features new colour and material options, providing an amplified all-terrain experience. The latest connected technologies and chassis systems – including a new, larger 28.95 cm (11.4) Pivi Pro touchscreen, standard Electronic Air Suspension and Cabin Air Purification Plus – provide the ultimate support and comfort for modern off-road excursions. 

The New Defender 130 is available in HSE and X specifications.

Read more
https://www.newsdrum.in/automobile/luxury-car-land-rover-launches-defender-130-check-features-37858.html