#2. Cristiano Ronaldo (815 goals; 230 assists; 1045 Total) 
The first one of the obvious two on top of this list is Cristiano Ronaldo. The Portugese forward started off as a teenager with Sporting Lisbon catching the attention of many. He impressed Sir Alex Ferguson enough to sign him on a record deal for a teenager. At Manchester United,Ronaldo took on the legendary no.7 jersey and went onto win almost all achievements possible,including his first of five Ballon d’Or wins. In 2009, United accepted his transfer to Real Madrid for, this time, a world record fee. It was at Madrid that Ronaldo really found the epitome of his goal scoring and goal making prowess. He went on to win four Champions League with the Spanish giants and became the highest scorer in the competition’s history. Even though latest moves to Juventus and a return stint at United haven’t been as successful, CR7 still has the urge to keep winning. Internationally, Cristiano is the leading scorer of all time having surpassed the long standing record of Ali Daei recently. 
#1. Lionel Messi (773 goals; 333 assists; 1106 Total) 
There is only so much that you can explain about greatness. From a very early age, Lionel Messi was touted to become a superstar of the football world. Everyone was so excited aboutthe little boy from Argentina that Barcelona chose to waste no time in tying him up to their youth team with a contract laid down on a napkin. Thus started the story of FC Barcelona and Lionel Messi that over the years evolved into a defining era for the club. For when the GOAT had toleave, the “post-Messi” era was felt. Regardless, the club’s no.10 ended with 698 goals for the Blaugrana. Apart from goal scoring what defines Messi’s role is that of playmaker. He has consistently made goals out of nothing, either assisting or creating that decisive pass that leads to the goal. His playmaking prowess is being fully utilized at his current club, PSG. Further his  86 goals and 49 assists for Argentina mean Leo Messi has no match when it comes in the 21st century.