The reigning Bundesliga winners' most recent victory was tarnished by an odd event that gave
them a numerical advantage in the last minutes. According to German Football Association
(DFB) instructor Lutz Wagner, the match officials, not Julian Nagelsmann, were to blame for
Bayern Munich playing with 12 men in the final moments of their Bundesliga encounter against
Freiburg.

With a 4-1 victory over Freiburg at Schwarzwald-Stadion on Saturday, the reigning Bundesliga
champions took another important step toward their 10th consecutive crown. Bayern Munich
won all three points thanks to goals from Leon Goretzka, Serge Gnabry, Kingsley Coman, and
Marcel Sabitzer, but their latest victory was overshadowed by a contentious incident in the 86th
minute.

Bayern had to play with an extra outfield player for 17 seconds when the fourth official gave
Kingsley Coman the erroneous number. Because the number 29 was displayed on the
electronic board instead of 11, Coman was unaware that he was supposed to come off for
Sabitzer after Corentin Tolisso had to be replaced due to illness by Niklas Sule. The action was
delayed for a long time as violent scenes erupted on the touchline after Freiburg informed
officials to the numerical issue.

Following the match, head referee Christian Dingert conceded it was a "completely perplexing
scenario," before stating that the "DFB must decide" if a replay could be organised under
current league rules.

However, Wagner believes Dingert, not Nagelsmann or Coman, was the man most directly
accountable for the error, and that the official should have been more meticulous before allowing
the game to continue.

"Normally, he [the referee] or someone from his team should have made sure that the number of
players was correct before the game continued," the former Bundesliga referee and DFB
instructor has told GOAL and SPOX. "He didn't do that, so it's a mistake by the referee.

"Yes, the referee can delegate the task [to his assistants], but it is his responsibility that the
game continues with the right number of players on both sides."

"Something like that can always happen, and again, in the end, the referee is responsible."