Ben White’s began his senior career at Brighton and Hove Albion in 2016-17 when he was just eighteen years old. He spent three seasons on loan at Newport County, Peterborough United, and Leeds United respectively before returning to the Brighton first team in 2020-21. White was instrumental in helping Leeds to promotion in 2019/20, playing all 46 of their league games and winning Young Player of the Year. The following season he also won Brighton Player of the Year. His performances across that season earned him a call-up to the England squad for Euro2020. He remained unused during their run to the final, but made his international debut prior to it. White is known for his great technical ability on the ball, which is very useful for Arsenal, who build out from the back. He has occasionally deputised as a right-back and defensive midfielder. 
Ben White is Arsenal’s most expensive defender. It was a popular stick to beat him with last summer, as other clubs had signed more ‘proven’ centre-backs at lower prices. However, just a year on, Ben White has excelled as a starter in one of the most secure defences in the premier league. The 2021-22 season was characterised by the defensive partnership of Gabriel Magalhaes and Ben White. While he has had to start the new season deputizing at right-back to cover for the absence of Takehiro Tomiyasu, he will be hopeful of pushing for his preferred slot as the campaign progresses. In this unique season with a fast-approaching mid-season World Cup, he will be extremely motivated to push for a starting role in Southgate’s team. Being an undroppable presence in Arsenal’s backline is an indispensable part of that. Arsenal are one of the most exciting teams to be involved with this season, and already the only remaining team to have a perfect start. White has already made himself a fan-favourite at The Emirates, and will certainly look to make his mark in a season where his country feels most equipped to go deep in the World Cup and his club looks readier than ever to end their long hiatus from the UEFA Champions League.