Liz Gilbert is on a trip. Finding the balance of body, mind, and spirit takes her to places and people. So does Eat, Pray, Love. It takes us on a solo trip in-out. And the path is never easy for a self-absorbed seeker.

The movie is rich with rants from the imbalanced Liz. In all attempts to hold herself she takes and dismisses choices abruptly. Stealthily gets out of a failing marriage. Runs away from a disastrous boyfriend. Visits trattorias and friends in Italy. Continuing spiritual quests in India. Meeting healers in Bali. Does her life change? Oh..it’s still a mess. So, what’s it? Where would she find it?

Elizabeth Gilbert is a writer who seeks answers for all inner conflicts and the damages from people you connect. I have always felt her books connect female audience more. New York Times bestseller ‘’Eat, Pray, Love’ is no different. Liz actually personifies Elizabeth’s own journey to find balance within taking advance from the publisher for the next book.

Eat, Pray, Love is Julia Roberts' screen magic. You follow her fragile moods. Indecisive scenarios. Transitions. Realizations. It’s a deep quest powerful enough to shake us. In most of the scenes, Julia appears in loose clothes and pale make-up. You may find her wearing a saree in India and bowing to a Shaman in Bali. Her confused, wavering existence and agonized burst-outs move us.

Scenes in Bali are most endearing to me in Eat, Pray, Love. The beautiful resort she stays in, her bicycle rides through country roads, and the ‘accident’ al meeting with Felipe (Javier Bardem) where Liz finds her answer. When the lady finally anchors on his chest by a beach cove shedding all her anguish we genuinely wish a happy and peaceful life for this awesome pair.

Scripted by Ryan Murphy (director) and Jennifer Salt, movie doesn’t distance much from the book. But the serious quest of a woman who wants to be independent and cared equally lands on a modest solution. It is a flaw considering the organic go-girl-get attitude of Liz across the film.