Secant Technologies was ordered by the District Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission to compensate a customer for charging an additional amount of 37 as a merchant discount rate (MDR) and to repay the aforementioned extra charges.

Through its managing director, Gurdev Nagar, Ludhiana resident Paramjit Singh filed a complaint against Secant Technologies, a division of Litratim MicroSpecialities Private Ltd. (referred to as opposite party).

Singh claimed in his complaint, which was made on September 14, 2019, that he had paid the opposing party ₹1,180 in service fees to have a laptop repaired as well as have antivirus software installed.

The other party also charged 670, but the complainant paid the sum through his debit card in protest. On debit cards, the company added a 2% MDR.

The complainant reminded the opposing party of Reserve Bank of India instructions that made it clear that no merchant discount rate was applicable to accounts of ₹2,000 or less, nevertheless the fee was nonetheless imposed.

The complaining party claimed there was a lack of service because they charged ₹1,887 rather than ₹1,850.

The complainant requested in his complaint that the company pay him ₹50,000 for poor service, ₹1 lakh for unfair business practises, ₹10,000 for legal fees, and a refund of an additional 37 along with interest at a rate of 12% annually.

The opposing party's attorney, however, argued that the lawsuit was fraudulent, frivolous, and had been filed without any legal authority to demand money from the party.

The opposing party further argued that although the complainant claimed to have paid ₹1,887 using his debit card, the payment was really made using a credit card that belonged to one Hartaj Singh. 

In its order, the commission noted that the other party's issue was with payment and that it hardly mattered if the complaint made the payment using someone else's debit card.

“The opposite party was not entitled to charge ₹37 as MDR and in our considered view, it would be just and proper if the opposite party is made to refund ₹37 charged from the complainant, along with a composite compensation of ₹2,000,” the order read.