Football fans are splashing out on $20,000-a-night superyachts in Dubai during the FIFA World Cup 2022 to watch tournament matches on big screens while sailing on the Arabian Gulf. Clients can push the boat out further with exclusive use of a Michelin-starred chef.
As tens of thousands of football fans plan to use neighboring countries as a base for the 2022 Qatar World Cup, Dubai – less than an hour’s flight away from the footballing action - is expecting a bumper time for tourism.
While supporters without tickets are expected to flock to fan zones, featuring big screens, to watch a slice of the action in the emirate, other fans are splashing out to make sure they can watch their teams in style.
UAE’s biggest private yacht charter, Xclusive Yachts, have reported a surge in interest in hiring outs its fleet of 70 yachts with people clambering onboard to experience the world’s greatest football tournament in luxury.
Its managing director, Amit Patel, told Al Arabiya English that early numbers suggest they will record a surge of 300 percent in bookings during the month-long tournament in November.
The company anticipates taking some 3,000 people out on Dubai’s waters every day during the World Cup with many football fans hiring the firm’s crown in the jewel – a 43-meter superyacht – for a private overnight charter.
With an overnight hire costing $20,000, guests onboard Stardom, a tri-deck superyacht, can enjoy not only a Michelin-starred chef serving gourmet cuisine, but also a Skydeck, five luxury cabins, a private fine-dining area, an onboard bar and Sky Lounge and sunbathing deck.
“We are expecting a more than 300 percent in yacht bookings in November and December mainly due to visitors for the World Cup and Qatar who are also looking for leisure activities in Dubai,” said Patel. “We expect a huge influx of tourists who are coming from all around the world from different geographies and different demographics. We have gotten a lot of requests to watch football on board.”
Read more
https://english.alarabiya.net/News/gulf/2022/10/05/Fans-hiring-20-000-a-night-superyachts-in-Dubai-to-watch-Qatar-World-Cup-2022-at-sea
