For months, news of supply chain crunches and rising food prices have been making headlines, along with statements from restaurant owners about having to raise menu prices. 

Even by those standards, the news that Masa’s omakase menu would now cost $950 per person was eye-popping. (Previously, the menu was $850.) It’s now the most expensive tasting menu in New York and one of the top five most expensive Michelin-starred meals in the world. Sure, the series of small plates and fish from sushi master Masa Takayama might feature truffle shavings and A5 Wagyu tataki, and service charges are included, but you’ll still have to pay extra for drinks and shell out more for sales tax. 

Masa might be the only sushi restaurant in the country where $1,000 means you can’t bring a date, but it’s far from alone in skewing the average sushi price in the city. Manhattan’s top sushi spots now include Yoshino and Noz 17, both of which opened during the pandemic and are booked out a month ahead despite their $400-per-person price tags. If you’d rather eat high-end raw fish with friends—plural—consider Towa in the Flatiron District, just opened by the team behind Atomix and Her Name is Han. 

Here’s what $1,000 gets you at New York’s best sushi restaurants, arranged from most expensive omakase to most affordable. Estimated prices include tax and a standard 20% gratuity. 

Masa 

$1,000 gets you: One Hinoki counter experience

The $950 price for an omakase meal at the famed three-Michelin-starred sushi counter in the Deutsche Bank Center (formerly known as Time Warner) takes effect in April. With tax, the cost is $1,034 (thankfully, the service is included). The menu includes a half-dozen appetizers such as the famed grilled toast with toro tartare and caviar and just-cooked uni on papaya, at least 15 pieces of seasonal sushi, and white truffle ice cream. If you forgo the counter experience for a table, the price goes down to $815 per person with tax.

Yoshino

$1,000 gets you: Dinner for two, almost

Tadashi Yoshida opened his highly anticipated restaurant last September on the Bowery, where it quickly became a favorite among New York’s sushi cognoscenti. 

Read more
https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2022-03-29/what-is-new-york-city-s-best-sushi-restaurant-13-omakase-meals-for-1-000

Credit :- bloomberg