Dilip Tirkey’s Hockey India president post depends upon Odisha High Court hearing today
Former Indian hockey captain and former Rajya Sabha member from Odisha’s ruling party Biju Janta Dal, Dilip Tirkey is most likely to be the new president of Hockey India – the governing body of the sport in the country.
A veteran of over 400 international matches, Tirkey has filed the nomination for the top post of Hockey India on Sunday.   
The major hurdle for Tirkey in holding the top post of hockey administration in the country is the today’s Odisha High Court hearing on the ongoing case filed by Hockey Odisha, claiming to be the actual hockey body representing Odisha.
Last year, Hockey India had disaffiliated Hockey Odisha and formed an adhoc committee to look after the affairs of the sport in the state. Later, Hockey India gave affiliation to the Hockey Association of Odisha.   
Tirkey represents the Hockey Association of Odisha. As per the Electoral College for the ongoing elections of Hockey India, Tirkey represents the eastern state, thus making him eligible to contest the elections.  
“We are contesting the case in the High Court over the Hockey Odisha’s legitimate right of representing the state in Hockey India. Hockey Odisha  was wrongfully debarred by the national body,” says Hockey Odisha secretary Pratap Satapathy.
Apart from Tirkey, Bhola Nath, who represents the Jharkhand Hockey, has also filed his nomination for the post of president as well as for the secretary general post.
As per the insider, if the court hearing goes in favor of Tirkey then he is most likely to be the new president of Hockey India. In that scenario, Bhola Nath is likely to be the secretary general of the hockey body.
“But if the court hearing goes in favor of Hockey Odisha and subsequently stopping the Tirkey in representing the state in the Hockey India, in that scenario, Bhola Nath will go for the president post,” says a source, who represents a state unit.
“I have filed the nominations for both secretary general and president. Let’s see which post I will go for,” says Bhola Nath. “I might even contest against Tirkey.”