‘The Kashmir Files’ has released on March 11, 2022. Originally scheduled for a Jan 26 release, it was stuck due to concerns about the coronavirus pandemic and distribution issues. It finally managed to release in a few hundred theatres nationwide.

In under a week since its release, it has been declared tax-free by several state governments, including here in Madhya Pradesh. When I went to see ‘The Kashmir Files’, the show was housefull and there was a heavy silence throughout the 2 hours 50 minute duration of the film.

It was an unusual silence, brought on by shock, disbelief, dismay and guilt. Shock at the graphic violence suffered by the Kashmiri Pandits starting a few years before Jan 19, 1990 and continuing for several years afterwards.

Disbelief that such atrocities could have been committed by humans on other humans, and not in the dark ages but just some 30-odd years ago.

Dismay that the stories of Kashmiri Pandits were kept buried by all the players that mattered – the administration, the police, the media and others.

Guilt that the rest of India remained a mute spectator to this genocide.

When the collective guilt of an audience becomes palpable in the theatre, it goes to prove that the movie is going to be a game-changer. It will define the way ordinary Indians look at the issue of Kashmiri Pandit genocide and exodus - in a wholly new light - from here on.

Director Vivek Agnihotri’s vision is brought to life on screen by exceptional performances by Anupam Kher, Pallavi Joshi, Darshan Kumar, Puneet Issar and others. It is commendable that the main antagonist is also given an opportunity to present their point of view. This balances out the narrative of the film and accords it dignity, despite handling such ‘explosive’ content.

The musicality of the film lies in its extended, forced silences, where as much is said as is suppressed. With an ‘A’ certificate, ‘The Kashmir Files’ brings out the bitter, unvarnished truth of Kashmir. It will go a long way in providing catharsis and healing to innumerable Indians, irrespective of whether they are Kashmiri Pandits or not.