To mark the 75 years of Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav, the Differently Abled Cricket Council of India (DCCI) is organizing Sardar Patel National Divyang Svayam T20 Cricket Cup at Talkatora Cricket Ground, Delhi, from May 4 to 6.

The DCCI is an umbrella body to promote cricket among the differently abled – n challenged, deaf, blind and wheelchair – players in the country. The unified body for the differently abled cricketers is recognized by the BCCI (Board of Control for Cricket in India).

The six teams in the physically challenged section are participating in the three-day T20 tournament.

Chandigarh, Himachal Pradesh and Madhya Pradesh are in Group A, while Baroda, Uttar Pradesh and Delhi are clubbed in Group B.

The tournament will be played in the league-cum-knockout format.

Apart from the tournament for the physically challenged cricketers, there will be an exhibition match of wheelchair players on May 5, to be played at the same venue.

The tournament is supported by the Department of Empowerment of Persons with Disabilities (Divyangjan), union ministry of social justice and empowerment.    

“The country’s top physically challenged cricketers will be seen in action in the T20 tournament and we are organizing a number of tournaments across the country under the banner of DCCI to promote differently abled cricket,” says Ravikant Chauhan, general secretary, DCCI.

“Inspired by the iron resolute of Sardar Vallabh Bhai Patel and his role in uniting princely states into one country, we have dedicated the tournament to the memory of the country’s one of the tallest leaders.” “Our aim is to achieve social integration, inclusion and mainstreaming of differently abled through cricket,” adds Chauhan.    

The BCCI recognition has played an important role in streamlining the differently abled cricket in India.

“We, the entire differently abled cricket fraternity of the country, are thankful to BCCI secretary Jay Shah for playing a pivotal role in getting BCCI recognition for DCCI. Since BCCI has taken disability cricket under its wings, the public awareness towards our cricket (referring to disability cricket) is increasing day by day,” says Chauhan, who is instrumental in promoting physically challenged cricket in India.