Along with millions of Australians, Anna Wang cast her vote for Labor this election.

Her ballot was part of a massive swing towards Labor in the Sydney electorate of Reid, delivering the seat to Sally Sitou, who has Chinese heritage and whose parents fled Laos due to the Vietnam war.

Australia's fraught relationship with China was a key talking point during the election campaign and it shaped Ms Wang's vote.

The 66-year-old said she hoped the new government would improve Australia-China relations and increase trade between the two nations.

"Since the relationship deteriorated and Peter Dutton talked about war with China, there has been more racist pressure on the Chinese," she said.

"As a soon-to-be retiree, I am concerned about the minimum wage and the issues of Medicare and aged care.

"Sally Sitou is a young candidate who has strong community connections. We don't care about the ethnicity of the candidate. We will support anyone who can represent the interests of the community."

Erin Chew, from the Asian Australian Alliance, said she felt it was long overdue that someone with Asian heritage was elected as the local MP for such a diverse electorate.

Vivienne Chen, originally from Shanghai, runs a dumpling house in the Sydney suburb of Burwood.

She said while Ms Sitou was a strong candidate and she was pleased to see someone with Chinese heritage running in Reid, she chose to vote Liberal.

"The Liberal party had dealt with the pandemic properly and provided sufficient support for small businesses," she said.

"Ultimately, [our preference] lays on the candidates' policies rather than their ethnic heritage.

"I hope that the Chinese community members will get more involved in politics and have more representation in the parliament."

How did Chinese Australians vote?

Electorates where almost one in five people have Chinese ancestries – such as Reid (18 per cent) and Chisholm (19 per cent) – saw swings of more than 8 per cent to Labor.

That's much higher than the national average of 3.4 per cent.

The swing in Chisholm in Melbourne saw Hong Kong-born Gladys Liu lose her seat to Labor's Carina Garland.

Read more:- https://www.abc.net.au/news/2022-05-24/chinese-australian-vote-election-swing-labor/101091384