List of my favourite K-dramas
1.Hwarang
Hwarang is a South Korean television series starring Park Seo-joon, Go A-ra, and Park Hyung-sik. It revolves around an elite group of young men called Hwarang, who discover their passion, friendship and love in the turmoil of the Silla Kingdom.
2. While you were sleeping
The drama is about a woman, Nam Hong Joo, who can see accidents that take place in the future through her dreams. And a prosecutor, Jung Jae Chan, who struggles to stop the woman's dreams from coming true. A young woman with bad premonition dreams meets two people who suddenly develop the same ability.
3. W two World
W is written and drawn by Yeon Joo's father and follows rich boy vigilante Chul as he attempts to find the culprit who murdered his family one fateful night. Despite the webtoon's popularity, Yeon Joo's father, Seong Moo, plans to abruptly end it by having Chul killed off.
4. Strong woman Do Bong-soon
Do Bong-soon is a woman born with superhuman strength that comes from the long line of women possessing it. when Ahn Min Hyuk, the CEO of ainsoft, a gaming company witnesses her strength he hires her as his personal bodyguard. Do Bong soon was born with superhuman strength.
5. Goblin
When Kim Shin is faced with death instead of honor after fighting a mighty battle, God turns Kim Shin into a goblin instead, tasked with protecting certain people from the life of misery. But immortality is wearing on Kim Shin, and he longs to find the prophesied human bride who can set his soul free.
6. Moonlover
When a total eclipse of the sun took place, a 21st century woman, is transported back in time to the Goryeo Dynasty of Korea, in the body of 16-year-old girl. There she witnesses love, rivalry, politics, and friendships ensue between the handsome princes, in a fight for the throne, friendship, and love.
7. Black
Black is the story of a grim reaper who is forced to track down his fugitive partner. In the process, he uncovers the truth about a series of cold case murders from 20 years ago.