By Kinjal

A photo of ‘The Kashmir Files’ director Vivek Agnihotri with Prime Minister Modi is viral as part of an infographic that reads, “The KASHMIR FILES donated the entire fund of 200 crores to the Prime Minister’s Fund. Salute to Vivek Agnihotri for donating the entire collection of ‘The Kashmir Files’ to the Prime Minister’s Relief Fund.” It is important to note that the film has earned approximately ₹250 crores at the box office.

( Link https://twitter.com/PNRai1/status/1511561660888064003?s=20&t=yqXUaQKVoNLhcIkhuwfmJQ)

This photo is viral on Twitter with the same claim.

It is also circulating on Facebook.

Fact-check

Photo

We performed a Google reverse image search on the photo and found it in an article on Dainik Jagran’s English portal published on March 13, 2022. According to the article, Vivek Ranjan Agnihotri, his wife Pallavi Joshi and filmmaker Abhishek Agarwal met Prime Minister Modi on March 12 where the PM appreciated the team for the film.

On March 12, filmmaker Abhishek Agarwal tweeted some more pictures of their meeting with PM Modi.

( Link https://twitter.com/vivekagnihotri/status/1502662035040919557?s=20&t=CLeBVXhqTsLig-Xv7miDyA)

Did Vivek Agnihotri donate ₹200 crores to PM Relief Fund?

We did not find reports corroborating the claim that Vivek Agnihotri has donated ₹200 crores to the Prime Minister’s Relief Fund.

We came across a report by Patrika published earlier this year discussing an interview of Vivek Agnihotri and Pallavi Joshi. According to the report, Agnihotri was asked a question about whether he will be donating the film’s earnings. Joshi called the question absurd and said that there are four producers of the film and they are the ones who earn money and further invest it in future projects.

It is noteworthy that Niyaz Khan, an IAS officer from Madhya Pradesh, had asked Agnihotri in a tweet to donate the earnings of ‘The Kashmir Files’ to Kashmiri Pandits. Agnihotri took a jibe at Khan in response.

Read the full story here:- https://www.altnews.in/did-the-kashmir-files-director-vivek-ranjan-agnihotri-donated-200-cr-to-pm-relief-fund/