Magician of Rajasthan politics shows his tricks
Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot showed some of his magic tricks on Sunday night when he sabotaged an attempt by the Congress leadership to install his bete noire Sachin Pilot as his successor.
The state plunged into political turmoil after 90 legislators loyal to him submitted their resignations to Speaker CP Joshi to express their solidarity with Gehlot and did not allow a meeting of the Congress Legislature Party (CLP) to take place. The CLP meeting was called to elect Pilot as Gehlot’s successor.
Their demand is to name a Congress loyalist and not Pilot as the next chief minister. For them, anyone among the 102 legislators, who rallied behind Gehlot and the Congress in July 2020 when Pilot led a revolt against his own government, is acceptable.
The even refused to meet two central observers Mallikarjun Kharge and Ajay Maken.
Pilot lodged his loyalists in a Gurgaon resort for nearly two weeks in the hope of more legislators joining him in dislodging Gehlot.
However, the magician proved a tough nut to crack. He not only succeeded in saving his government but also strengthened his position in the party and the state.
Gehlot was expected to file his nomination papers for the upcoming elections to the Congress president’s post on Monday but that is now shrouded by clouds of uncertainty after Sunday night’s developments.
Though the legislators have not opposed the move to send Gehlot to national politics, they want him to continue till the declaration of results on October 19 and also his choice to be named as the next chief minister.
All eyes are now on Congress president Sonia Gandhi as she takes a call on Gehlot’s successor. The big question is whether she would now like to hand over the baton to Gehlot or look for other options.
Gehlot’s move also prompted a large number of Congress leaders to renew their requests to Rahul Gandhi to return as the party chief. But he is unlikely to do so and remains adamant on a non-Gandhi taking over as the next Congress president. Interesting times ahead in the grand old party.