We all love movies and TV shows so much as it represents the reality of the society we live in. But have we ever thought about how these representations can influence the viewers and especially among children. 

Here is a new research in the Journal of Public Health that shows how children are exposed to unhealthy behaviours like smoking, drinking and eating unhealthy foods. These behaviours are being gradually developed among children as they get influenced through the media. 

Even though the government's have limited the appearance of alcohol and tobacco on TV its still common. 

When the actions that's scripted which supposedly portrays the "real life" it can lead the young people to copy those habits that they see. 

Media exposure can influence children’s health behaviors 

The lead research Alex Barker said, “There is now strong evidence that exposure to advertising or other tobacco, alcohol, and junk food content in the media increases subsequent consumption in children and adolescents.” 

“These programs are widely viewed and seen by young people and due to the nature of reality TV, with its inspirational role models, they are likely influencing drinking and food consumption choices in young people,” Barker said. 

Media could influence the use of substances in various ways stated Ryan Bogdan, PhD, associate professor of psychological and brain sciences at the Washington University in St. Louis. 

“The dopaminergic-rich corticostriatal circuit in our brain helps us learn what cues in our environment are associated with reward to drive motivated behavior. So if substance and food cues have been positively paired in the past or are presenting in rewarding contexts, this can induce craving.” 

As an example he said that the studies have found that pictures of taste foods make feelings of cravings activated.
 
“It is also possible that more broad social imitation is at play,” said Bogdan. “If individuals with some form of celebrity status are depicted engaging in a behavior, it may lead to imitation behavior in viewers who wish to be like them.” 

Sources - Healthline