Arsenal love to have a Brazilian named Gabriel. The youngest (and first of the trio to arrive at the club) is 21-year-old forward Gabriel Martinelli, who became the first Brazilian to open scoring in the Premier League when he netted just 20 minutes into the new season against Crystal Palace on Matchday 1. Having signed in 2019, Martinelli has already made 87 appearances in all competitions for the Gunners, scoring 20 goals. He was previously the youngest player to play for Ituano (in Brazil) in the 21st century, at 16 years and 9 months. While at Ituano, he also had trials with Manchester United and Barcelona. 
Playing primarily as a left winger, the Brazilian is comfortable up front and on the right wing. Players and staff at Arsenal speak in glowing terms about ‘Gabi’, who has been described as a ‘diamond’ and praised for ‘training every day like it’s his last day on earth.’ Head coach Mikel Arteta appreciates him not only as an excellent footballer but also as a ‘top person’. Any doubts about the signing of Gabriel Jesus being a threat to his position have been quelled for now by his excellent start to the season; the pair have already combined extremely well in Arsenal’s perfect start to the season.
Martinelli claims to take inspiration from attackers of the great Arsenal teams of old – especially Thierry Henry. Henry’s trademark of cutting inside from the left with a deadly finish is something he aspires to incorporate into his game. The signs are already present, with the obvious caveat that there is still a long way to go in perfecting it. Talks of a long-term contract with improved terms have already been rumoured for the young forward, whose current deal runs till 2024. Fans and observers will be watching Martinelli with keen interest in what promises to be an exciting season for Arsenal’s young team. His goal contributions could make all the difference in a season where Arsenal look most equipped to end their long absence from the Champions League. The Gabriel-Gabriel partnership up top could be instrumental in delivering Europe’s premier competition to The Emirates Stadium once again. 