Millie Bobby Brown will be returning to Baker Street.

Enola Holmes, a lovely whodunit that followed Sherlock Holmes' younger sister as she sleuthed her way through Victorian England, starred the Stranger Things star. Enola and her logical abilities are back, this time confronted with a plot that could prove to be her most deadly case yet.

The first look at Netflix's Enola Holmes 2 (coming November 4), which stars Brown as the corset-wearing, fourth-wall-breaking heroine once more. After successfully solving her first case, the young Enola is now attempting to follow in the footsteps of her renowned brother (Henry Cavill) by opening her own detective agency (and hopefully escaping Sherlock's shadow).

Enola's next adventure begins when a young girl who works in a match factory asks her to find her missing sister. Enola soon finds herself caught up in a high-stakes chase across London, from the city's dirty industrial underbelly to the glamorous galas of high society.

"We set the film in the hustle and bustle of London, which we didn't get to witness as much in the previous one," Brown hints. "We got to see what this young child is up to in this chaotic city that surrounds her at all hours of the day and night, and we got to explore these places in great depth."

"I wanted this story to be grittier," says filmmaker Harry Bradbeer, who also directed the first picture. "I wanted to expose her to working-class girls in a working-class environment. I wanted Enola to be absolutely out of her element in this new world."

She helped bring the first film to the screen after her sister introduced her to the book series. Bradbeer says her insight was invaluable as he and the writers shaped the script for the sequel.
The writer-director/producer says she has a "tremendous instinct" for the character of Enola Le'Michele D'Ath.
It can be exhausting, and you look back and think, 'Gosh, I can't believe I didn't fall asleep'. But there are so many things I got to be a part of that I was grateful for, Katherine Jenkins says about her acting career.