by Ahmed Ali Fayyaz

Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s forthcoming visit to Jammu and Kashmir, scheduled for 24 April, is historic for multiple reasons.

It is officially described as his commitment to celebrating the National Panchayati Raj Day among 36,000 members of the Panchayati Raj Institutions (PRI) in Jammu and Kashmir. Lieutenant Governor Manoj Sinha said at a curtain-raiser on Tuesday that the PM’s visit would be ‘historic and unprecedented’ as he would not only be addressing the people of Jammu and Kashmir but also the Gram Sabhas across the country.

According to Sinha, Modi would also lead the ground-breaking ceremony of Rs 38,082 crore Industrial Development proposals in the presence of eminent industrialists from all over the country and abroad. This initiative would generate more than four lakh direct and indirect employment opportunities in the Union Territory.

The Prime Minister is scheduled to lay the foundation stone of the 850 MW Ratle Power Project and 540 MW Kwar Hydroelectric Project. He would also kickstart work on five Expressways and formally inaugurate the already functional 8.5 km long Banihal-Qazigund tunnel on the Jammu-Srinagar highway.

According to the government officials, the public meeting at Samba district’s Palli Panchayat would be attended by one lakh people. The largest public gathering of the last 15 years, attended by around one lakh people, was Modi’s Lalkar Rally at Jammu’s Maulana Azad Stadium on 1 December, 2013.

Even as the authorities are still tight-lipped about Modi’s Kashmir itinerary, knowledgeable sources insist that the Prime Minister would also address a massive gathering of PRIs and Urban Local Bodies members at Sher-e-Kashmir International Conference Centre (SKICC) in Srinagar.

Modi enjoys the distinction of being the only Indian leader after 1980 who has visited J&K as Prime Minister as many as 20 times. However, it would be his first civilian and political visit after the abrogation of Article 370 and J&K State’s reorganisation into the two Union Territories in August 2019.

Reas the full story here:- https://theprobe.in/on-his-first-post-2019-visit-modi-must-address-his-governments-disconnect-with-kashmiris/