1. Tteokbokki: Spicy Stir-fried Rice Cakes
Many people are familiar with the dish tteokbokki, especially those interested in Korean culture or who watch Korean movies or dramas. These spicy rice cakes mixed with various ingredients are always ranked in the top 5 of Koreans’ most loved street food. 

2. Soondae: Korean Sausage
Soondae is known as tteokbboki’s best friend. Yes, it goes so well with tteokbokki. You can easily find street vendors even selling the combo tteoksoon (tteok from tteokbokki, soon from soondae).

3. Dakgangjeong: Sweet Crispy Korean Fried Chicken
Dak means chicken in Korean, so yes, it’s a stir-fried chicken marinated in sauce. There are various types depending on the sauce, but the most common dakgangjeong is the one with sweet chili sauce. 

4. Eomuk: Korean Fish Cake
Eomuk is a popular dish made with dough and powdered fish. Fish cakes are usually dipped in salty soy sauce seasoned with green onions and sesame oil. Depending on the size, skewers of fish cake cost 50 cents to 1 dollar, which is often the cheapest food on the street.

5. Bap Burger: Korean Rice Burger
Again, bap means cooked rice, and burger is burger, as you know. This dish is a burger with buns of compressed rice, which hold the meat and veggies together. Bap burger is a popular Korean-style street food known for being very tasty with an affordable price. It is especially popular with students looking for a low-priced meal.

6. Twigim: Korean Deep Fries
Twigim in Korean refers to deep-fried dishes. The outer part of the batter is called frying clothes (튀김 옷), and starch powder, bread crumbs, and flour are mainly used. 

7. Gilgeori Toast: Korean Street Toast
Gilgeori toast, which means street toast in Korean, is a savory and sweetened egg sandwich sold by street food vendors. For many Koreans, gilgeori toast is a nostalgic street food, reminiscent of childhood. 

8. Kkwabaegi: Twisted Korean Doughnuts
Kkwabaegi is a sweet snack that is fluffy, spongy, and twisted. It is made with glutinous rice flour and melted butter. The dough is deep-fried in oil and tossed in sugar and cinnamon powder.