Heart disease may be considered by some to be more of a problem for men. However, it's the most common cause of death for both women and men . Because some heart disease symptoms in women can differ from those in men, women may not know what to look for.
Heart attack symptoms for women ; 
The most common heart attack symptom in women is the same as in men — some type of chest pain, pressure or discomfort that lasts more than a few minutes or comes and goes.
But chest pain is not always severe or even the most noticeable symptom, particularly in women. Women often describe heart attack pain as pressure or tightness. And it's possible to have a heart attack without chest pain.
Women are more likely than men to have heart attack symptoms unrelated to chest pain, such as: 
1 Neck, jaw, shoulder, upper back or upper belly (abdomen) discomfort
2 Shortness of breath
3 Pain in one or both arms
4 Nausea or vomiting
5 Sweating
6 Lightheadedness or dizziness
7 Unusual fatigue
8 Heartburn (indigestion)
These symptoms may be vague and not as noticeable as the crushing chest pain often associated with heart attacks. This might be because women tend to have blockages not only in their main arteries but also in the smaller ones that supply blood to the heart — a condition called small vessel heart disease or coronary microvascular disease.
Compared with men, women tend to have symptoms more often when resting, or even when asleep Emotional stress can play a role in triggering heart attack symptoms in women.
Because women's heart attack symptoms can differ from men's, women might be diagnosed less often with heart disease than are men. Women are more likely than men to have a heart attack with no severe blockage in an artery (nonobstructive coronary artery disease).
When to see a doctor ; 
If you have symptoms of a heart attack or think you're having one, call for emergency medical help immediately. 
Read more - https://www.mayoclinic.org/diseases-conditions/heart-disease/in-depth/heart-disease/art-20046167