1. Hansik- In Memory Of The Ancestors
Hansik festival is popular as the Cold Food Festival. On this day, the local people indulge in non-fire cooking and consume cold food throughout the day. As per Korean mythology, the entire country performs sacrificial rites at Jongmyo the Royal Shrine and Neungwon. Local people hold their personal memorial services and visit their families’ ancestral graves. People also plant trees around the grave and offer prayers. Hansik festival marks the beginning of the farming season and the farmers also spread seeds from the farmhouse to commence agriculture.

2. Yudu- A Unique Celebration
Yudu is one of the most unique festivals in Korea. Here the local households offer the first harvest of the season to God and initiate gathering crops and fruits as their annual household stock. One of the most unconventional features of Yudu festival is that the locals visit any nearby streams to wash their hair to remove all bad spirits and bad luck from their lives. As Yudu is celebrated in peak summer, people rejoice at the festival by indulging with ginseng chicken broth and other healthy soups.

3. Seollal- Happy New Year
Seolnal is the Korean new year and celebrated on the first day of the Korean calendar. This is one of the celebrated Korean festivals rejoiced by the entire country. People start their celebration by performing ancestral rites and paying tributes to them. The locals wear traditional dresses, eat authentic traditional food, play folk games and listen to folk tales. Everyone greets each other, exchange wishes and blessings, gifts and sweets.

4. Dano- A Beautiful Korean Tradition
Like other traditional festivals in Korea, Dano is a popular name. Local people rejoice with full vigor and it is declared as a national holiday in the country. Women wash their hair in water boiled with a sweet flag to give it a shiny luster. The local people dress up in red and blue and wear iris roots to wave off bad luck and evil spirits from the body. People enjoy traditional folk games like swing and stone battle and indulge with local food like surichitteok, ssuk tteok, herb rice cakes