Now that we can cast( I’m insufferable, I know) that aside- we’ll move on to the more relevant bit. I guess for this post to have any kind of formative importance- I have to roll back a few years and like the many, many before me remind you where it all started. Believe it or not, there were precursors before 2020 to let us in- it should have been obvious from when Dudley was constantly compared to being a pig for being fat or the blatant anti-semitic stereotypes the goblins were crafted after. Or, even, the cultural appropriation of several Native American lores whilst the creation of the Ilvermorny houses( Britishers, am i right?). The ultimate knife to the throat was obviously her declaring that trans women aren't real women, aligning herself TERF( trans exclusionary radical feminist) ideology. You know how members of the LGBTQIA+ community have always always stood together, because any hatred directed towards one group would be extended onto the others? recently , though, even if there is a long way to go still, it has become increasingly obvious that queer sexual orientations have become more acceptable than displaying gender non-conformity - and it is this grey margin that TERFs have been operating in, sort of. 

Since then, she has published an essay about how only( so much for being a feminist) misogyny is the most essential component of women's gender identity, therefore rendering any trans woman “not real” (because as we’ve all learnt being a part of a minority gender identity is not inherently discriminatory, keep up please) .Then, she started projecting her desires to escape the aforesaid misogyny onto trans men and declared that they need to ‘embrace’ their identity which is what she had learnt to do( because infantilizing trans men is totally not a by product of the misogyny too, by the way). To top all of that off, she wrote a book about a predatory male ‘crossdresser’ using this facade to pick female victims (under a male pen name, which, really?) whilst still claiming that it was trans people who were using propaganda( *ahem* yes, them) for “shunning young gay people”.