Shayiq Rasool, Deputy Director, JK Floriculture department says that last year despite the COVID-19 second wave, 2.25 lakh tourists, including local visitors, visited the tulip garden to enjoy the natural beauty and it is expected that the number of visitors in 2022 will be higher than previous years and influx of tourists will also be in huge number as COVID-19 has declined and normal life has been returned to the track.
Spread over 30 acres, this terraced garden is built on a mountain slope. There are seven terraces each with a different variety of flowers, especially tulips. With more than 46 varieties and 15 lakh tulips, new flowers are added each year. The tulip is a novelty; however, the climatic conditions of Kashmir are most suited for it. 
The Tulip Festival is held at the beginning of spring in Srinagar, between March and April, when the tulip buds are ready to bloom. This festival lasts for fifteen days or a month as different flowers continue to bloom creating a rainbow of colours. The weather dictates when the Tulip Festival begins each year. So, if you’ve missed it last year, you could plan for this year. 
The bloom usually lasts up to a maximum of four weeks but the efforts in making the garden reach this stage is a long, painstaking and cumbersome process involving the blood and sweat of 64 Gardeners and 46 supporting staff of Floriculture Department to make this happen, says Shayiq Rasool, Deputy Director, JK Floriculture department.
The picturesque garden, one of the biggest tulip gardens in Asia and located on the foothills of the Zabarwan range and the banks of majestic Dal Lake, has over 63 varieties of red, yellow, pink, white, purple, blue, yellow and multi-color – early blooming, mid blooming and late blooming – tulip bulbs this year. The colours are to cherish. It is an array of hues. Besides the usual ones, we also have crimson and brick red, maroon and apricot colour. The early and late blooming varieties have been added to extend the total blooming period.