Ineligible for a driving licence, the 15-year-old left home on his brother’s motorcycle, clearing many security checkpoints during a 3.5-km ride to a deserted corner of the Eidgah locality in the summer capital of the union territory of Jammu and Kashmir (J&K).
It was 3 pm on 2 October 2021 when the teenager pulled up and waited till two men appeared and climbed onto the motorbike with him, according to the police. He dropped them at a marketplace called Karan Nagar, a hub of pharmacists and medical diagnostic centres clustered around Srinagar’s premier tertiary care centre, the Shri Maharaja Hari Singh Hospital.
At the bazaar, the two men walked up to a man called Majid Ahmad Gojri, 24, a self-styled  “social-media influencer (here and here)”, whom militants suspected of being a police informer, a claim the family and police denied. One of them shot Gojri six times with a pistol. As Gojri collapsed, the two men climbed back on their teenage driver's getaway motorcycle and fled.
“Later, the boy attended Gojri’s funeral prayers and returned home,” an investigating officer privy to the case told Article 14 on condition of anonymity since he was not authorised to speak to the media.    
Article 14 contacted the teenager's family, but they only said the case was going on in court and they had “full faith in the judiciary”.  They said the 15-year-old was “too young to kill anyone”. 
“We don’t want to talk about it, the case is going on in the court and we have full faith in the judiciary,” said the boy’s father, whose identity we are withholding because the juvenile cannot be identified as per the law.
The Rise Of ‘Hybrid’ Militancy
In 55 civilian assassinations over the last 20 months in Kashmir, over 70% are now attributed by police to 'hybrid militants', of which one in five was a juvenile, according to data shared with Article 14 by the J&K police. 
Read more - https://article-14.com/post/inside-the-shadowy-deadly-world-of-kashmir-s-teenage-hybrid-militants--633e3b285e987
 