This is Ambassador car, once fondly called the "King of Indian roads".

It was manufactured by Hindustan Motors of India, which began its production in 1958 and made improvements and changes over its production lifetime. 

The Ambassador was based on the Morris Oxford series III model, first made by Morris Motors Limited at Cowley, Oxford in the United Kingdom from 1956 to 1959.

In India, the automobile was manufactured by Hindustan Motors at its Uttarpara plant near Kolkata, West Bengal.

Original petrol engined Ambasaador cars are rare and they are the most sought after. Very few cars are still used as taxis and even less as daily drivers. Ambassador is touted as a future classic by many automobile journalists. Having produced over 900,000 during its incredible life span of over 50 years, a few thousand are still plying on Indian roads. It is arguably the most followed classic car in India.

The iconic brand was discontinued from India in 2014 and might be used by Peugeot when it begins its operations in the country.

Hindustan Motors closed all its operation in 2015.

The iconic car has got a surprising digital makeover. One of India's oldest custom design houses - DC2 Design, shared several pictures of the digitally rendered Ambassador recently. If produced, the car will be powered by an electric motor.

The look of the electric Ambassador keeps the iconic styling elements intact despite new treatments. The horizontal grille at the front is re-designed now with a frame garnished in chrome. The round headlights have made way for the angular LED headlamps. Even the prominent nose-bulge on the bonnet gets a makeover to keep the retro feel alive.

The concept electric Ambassador has only two doors, unlike its four-door original avatar. The wheels to get a makeover, with multi-spoke steel rims giving the car a contemporary look.

This is not the first time that DC design has attempted to remodel an Ambassador car. 12 years ago, the company showcased a concept called the Ambierod, which was powered by a V12 engine. Apart from the modern design elements, the Ambierod had one unique feature - the gullwing doors.

Source: Google