It didn't take long this week for the Northern Territory — where wresting two marginal seats off Labor could prove important to the Coalition's re-election chances — to feature on the federal campaign trail.

On Tuesday, federal government frontbenchers touched down in the searing Top End heat to spruik a key budget announcement for the jurisdiction.

The $1.5 billion investment in port infrastructure has prompted rumours of a possible second Darwin port since it was announced as part of the federal budget a fortnight ago.

The project's backers say the money will establish Australia's northernmost major city as an exports and minerals powerhouse — but several questions were raised at the same time as others were answered.

What exactly is being promised?

On paper, the investment will fund infrastructure including a wharf, an offloading facility and dredging of the shipping channel.

Gas and mineral exports, manufacturing and hydrogen development are some of the sectors it's expected to support.

Detailing the commitment on a wharf by Darwin Harbour earlier this week, Deputy Prime Minister Barnaby Joyce said it would ensure "this port becomes one of the premier ports in Australia".

The problem is: there isn't a port at Middle Arm, the region south of Darwin that the money will help develop.

Instead, Darwin's port sits in an industrial precinct not far from the city — but its leasing to Chinese firm Landbridge for 99 years has been a geopolitical headache since the deal was inked in 2015. 

There's been speculation the federal government could bypass the problem by building a new port entirely since the funding commitment was revealed two weeks ago, and Finance Minister Simon Birmingham has said new facilities could eventually be used by Defence since then.

Pressed on the issue on ABC Radio Darwin on Wednesday, Mr Joyce flagged further announcements in this space.

Is the funding locked in?

The visiting frontbenchers this week insisted they weren't in town to make an election promise because the money had been budgeted.

"This is L-A-W law," Northern Australia Minister David Littleproud told reporters.

Read the entire story here:- https://www.abc.net.au/news/2022-04-15/darwin-port-funding-explainer-federal-election-nt/100992536