By NewsDrum Desk

Washington: Ayman al-Zawahari, who assumed the leadership of al-Qaeda after the death of Osama bin Laden, has been killed in a “precision strike” carried out by the CIA in the Afghan capital of Kabul, President Joe Biden has said, declaring that “justice has been delivered and this terrorist is no more”.

Zawahiri, 71, remained a visible international symbol of the group, 11 years after the US killed bin Laden in Pakistan. He was killed in a drone strike carried out on Saturday evening at a house in Kabul where he was sheltering to reunite with his family.

"I authorised a precision strike that would remove him from the battlefield, once and for all," Biden said on Monday in a speech from the White House.

According to officials, Zawahiri was on the balcony of a safe house when the drone fired two missiles at him. Other family members were present, but they were unharmed and only Zawahiri was killed.

“He was deeply involved in the planning of 9/11, one of the most responsible for the attacks that murdered 2,977 people on American soil. For decades, he was the mastermind of attacks against Americans, said Biden.

The US president was kept abreast of the strike against Zawahiri as he was isolated with a rebound case of Covid-19. Biden spoke outdoors on Monday from the Blue Room Balcony at the White House.

"Now, justice has been delivered and this terrorist leader is no more. People around the world no longer need to fear the vicious and determined killer," Biden said.

"The United States continues to demonstrate our resolve and our capacity to defend the American people against those who seek to do us harm. We make it clear again tonight, that no matter how long it takes, no matter where you hide, if you are a threat to our people, the United States will find you and take you out," he was quoted as saying by CNN.

Biden said the precision strike targeting was the result of the "extraordinary persistence and skill" of the nation's intelligence community.

Read more
https://www.newsdrum.in/international/al-qaeda-leader-ayman-al-zawahari-killed-in-us-drone-strike-in-afghanistan-69143.html