Undoubtedly wresting the largest audience base and producing a major chunk of Indian films, Bollywood still has seen its quality dwindling significantly over several years now. The research titled ‘Identification of key films and personalities in the history of cinema from a western perspective’ published in ‘Applied Network Science’ enlists cinematic quality parameters and analyses using the Internet Movie Database (IMDb).

Box-office revenue is a parameter of perceived quality as good movies garner more ticket sales and drive revenues higher. On this front, Bollywood had eight movies in IMDb’s list of highest-grossing movies from India in 2017, seven in 2018 and 2019, six in 2020, and down to two in 2021. In contrast, Hollywood’s ‘Spider Man: No way home’ single-handedly clocked over 700 crores even during the pandemic. Beyond Hollywood, Korean and Chinese films too made the list of highest grossing movies of 2021 globally.

Film critics analyze aspects of technicality, art, plot content, performance by the cast, etc. National film award-winning critic Anupama Chopra, Chairperson of the Film Critics Guild, rates 2021’s best films from Indian cinema but no Bollywood films make the cut while movies like ‘Parasite’, ‘Another Round’, ‘Roma’ garner huge critical acclaim globally.  Leading international film critics’ lists for publications like New York Times & Indie Wire or BBC’s 100 best foreign films have no Bollywood movies at all.

Oscars are the epitome of cinematic quality. Since 1957, India got only three films nominated to the Oscars, with ‘Lagaan’ (2001) being the last. From 2000 to 2010, India sent seven Bollywood films to the Oscars but only four in the last decade. In contrast, films from 27 countries including Iran and Ivory Coast have won at the Oscars. The New York Indian Film Festival or IIFCincy has had nil Bollywood representation while regional performances like ‘Moothon’ bagged multiple awards.  Post ‘Paan Singh Tomar’ in 2012, none of the ‘Best Feature Film’ at National Film Awards is from Bollywood.

Issues are common themes and plots, lack of inclusivity and diversity, unscientific and unrealistic representations, etc. and existing yardsticks show that there’s a lot to be desired to put Bollywood movie reels at par with the international ones.