Indian team doesn't concede even a single goal in 5 matches to win, giving big hopes to World cup qualifications. 


Attack is the best defense. Minerva kept on attacking from the first whistle of the first group match till the final whistle of the final match. They didn't give any space to breathe for any of their opponents. Minerva kept on pressing high, and when they had possession, went into the opponent's goal in numbers like tigers, using strength and skills. Hurrying air ball passes were not seen much in the tournament from the team. This is the first time an Indian club winning in an international tournament, that too with total dominance. 


Final 

4-0 vs La Liga HPC

Thiyam 3
Jayed 1


Semi final 

3-0 vs Dubai City FC

Thiyam 3


GM 3

1-0 Vs Laliga HPC
Thiyam 1


GM 2

5-0 vs Barca Academy Dubai

Danish 1
Sanathoi 1
Thiyam 3


GM 1

6-0 vs GoPro Sports academy

Thiyam 2
Bishal 1
Danish 2
Jayed 1



Thiyam scored 12 goals in the tournament.


The team was forged as Warriors with a vision of qualifying for the 2034 World cup by the visionary owner of club Ranjit Bajaj. Club has  a history of stunning iLeague wins in 2017, then going on to win all Jr iLeague age group titles and also maiden AIFF Futsal league. Punjab based academy shows Indians can achieve great heights in football with plan and organised training, by providing many national players like Anwar Ali, Manvir Singh, Jeakson Singh. . . 


MINA CUP


Mina Cup was introduced with a vision of quality tournament experience for young players in the area, after the success of such tournaments in Europe. Mina cup matches are being conducted in four age groups: U-12, U-14, U-16and U-18.  U12 matches are in 9v9 format, while other age groups play 11v11. 


World's best academies/teams including Wolverhampton Wanderers and Manchester City, Spanish club Barcelona, Austrian Sturm Graz, Mexican Pumas and India’s Reliance Foundation were also part of the tournament. 


Other age group champions of 2022 : 


U14 - Pumas Unam

U16 - Football Academy Dubai

U18 - Madenat Sports Academy