According to Pundits, Leeds United have agreed to purchase RB Salzburg midfielder Brenden
Aaronson.

Jesse Marsch's team avoided relegation by beating Brentford 2-1 on the last day of the Premier
League season, a result that relegated Burnley to the Championship when they lost by the
same scoreline to Newcastle.

Leeds are allowed to go forward with their preparations for next season now that they have
secured their top-flight status, and understand that a deal for US international Aaronson has
already been finalized.

Leeds United made two bids for the 21-year-old in the January transfer window, but RB Salzburg, who reached the Champions League knockout rounds this season, were hesitant to
discuss a deal this late in the season.

Leeds' interest, though, never wavered, and rumors of a relocation to Elland Road have
continued ever since. Marsch is a major admirer of Aaronson's, according to 90 minutes, and he
aggressively pushed for a transaction to be completed as soon as he was named Marcelo
Bielsa's replacement.

The Premier League club made an initial £15 million bid, followed by a revised offer of roughly
£20 million a few days later, but Salzburg were adamant about not selling the US international in
the middle of the season.

However, they have now accepted a higher offer, and Aaronson is set to become Leeds' first
summer signing.

The agreement will also benefit the Philadelphia Union of Major League Soccer, which sold
Aaronson to Salzburg in January 2021.

The Philadelphia Union are expected to earn a percentage of the transfer price since they secured a sell-on provision when they relocated to Austria.

Aaronson headed to Salzburg to play for current Leeds head coach Jesse Marsch. Marsch is
also said to be friends with Jim Curtin, Aaronson's Philadelphia manager.

Aaronson will play for Leeds and Marsch in the Premier League after they secured their Premier
League status on the last day of the season.

Leeds defeated Brentford 2-1, while relegation rivals Burnley were defeated 2-1 by Newcastle
United.