After facing contrasting fortunes in gameweek 1, Southampton and Leeds United are all set to
lock their horns on Saturday in gameweek 2. Southampton will host Leeds United in their
backyard to open their account in the 2022/23 season.

Southampton started the game on a high tempo against Tottenham Hotspur but were unable to
carry the momentum as Conte’s men were too hot to handle. As a result, they lost 4-1 at
Tottenham Hotspur Stadium in the gameweek 1. Three crucial players are injured and are not
expected to feature against Leeds United as well.

On the other hand, Leeds United made a great start on the opening day of the campaign with a
2-1 win over Wolverhampton Wanderers at Elland Road. Rodrigo Moreno’s goal served as an
equalizer whereas Ait-Nouri’s own goal proved to be detrimental for the Whites.

Southampton vs Leeds United Match Details
Match: Southampton vs Leeds United
Date and Time: 13th August, 7:30 PM IST
Venue: St Mary’s Park

Southampton vs Leeds United Probable Playing XI
Leeds United: Illian Meslier; Pascal Struijk, Robin Koch, Marcos Llorente, Rasmus Kristensen;
Marc Roca, Tyler Adams; Brenden Aaronson, Rodrigo Moreno, Jack Harrison; Patrick Bamford

Southampton: Gavin Bazunu; Kyle Walker-Peters, Mohammed Salisu, Jan Bednarek, Romain
Perraud; Stuart Armstrong, James Ward-Prowse, Oriol Romeu, Mohamed Elyounoussi; Joe
Aribo; Che Adams
Southampton vs Leeds United Probable Winners

Leeds United have won their Premier League fixture on the gameweek 1 for the first time since
their return to top-flight football. On the other hand, Southampton faced a loss after a poor show.
We expect Leeds United to carry the momentum to the game against Ralph Hussenhuttl’s men
and take home all three points.

Predictions: Southampton 2-1 Leeds United

Southampton vs Leeds United Live Stream

The Southampton vs Leeds United game is available on the Disney+Hotstar application and
Star Sports Network. Sky Sports Network will telecast the game for the residents in the UK.

Image Credit : SouthamptonFC