Brighton and Hove Albion made history as they achieved their highest Premier League finish to
finish ninth in the table. Brighton finished the season in a flourish, winning three of their last five
matches and drawing the other two.

There’s something to be said about the work Graham Potter is doing at the club. Critics
questioned his tactics, and the team suffered two terrible run of forms - yet they finished 9th with
51 points. However, the runs of forms were extremely bad for Brighton - not winning in 11
matches in the first stretch and suffering 6 straight defeats in the second. Yet, they finished in
the top of the table which is nothing short of marvelous.

Always posing a thorn to the big sides, Brighton managed to hold Arsenal, Liverpool and Chelsea to draws in the first of the season, beating the two North London sides in the return
fixtures and thrashing Manchester United 4-0 at the end of the season. Graham Potter’s side
play some attractive football, as evidenced by their stats of being the best non big six team
when it comes to progressive passing, chances created and expected goals.

Brighton suffered
their fair share of injuries, with the reliable center back missing 8 games in the season, and
taking time to catch up to speed.

Brighton have made some astute deals in the summer, with signing Cucurella potentially being
player of the season for Brighton with some delightful defending and assisting from the flank.

However, Brighton’s finishing woes continued well into this season as well, as they were able to
score only two more goals than last term.

Finishing has been a problem that has plagued
Graham Potter ever since he has taken charge at the club, and all the hard work that goes into creating chances is ultimately wasted as the ball does not find the back of the net often.

Despite their horrible form in February and March only Chelsea, Manchester
City and Liverpool have lost fewer games than Brighton, proving them to be a very difficult team
to beat.