After at least three decades of warnings from climate scientists of lethal heat waves, large swathes of the northern hemisphere have experienced blistering temperatures this summer, alongside wildfires, losses to agriculture, and infrastructural collapses. 


In north-west India, prolonged heatwave spells in April 2022 made it the hottest in the 122 years from 1901 to 2022. Meanwhile, five states—Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, West Bengal, Meghalaya and Nagaland—have shown “significant decreasing trends in southwest monsoon rainfall” in the 30 years from 1989 to 2018, even as some states received excess rainfall and torrential downpours, and floods, landslides and other extreme events were recorded elsewhere across the country,  causing death and destruction of crops and property. 


In Spain and Portugal, more than 1,700 have died due to extreme heat in 2022. Mid July, meteorologists warned of a “heat apocalypse” in western France where more than 25,000 people abandoned homes and holiday rentals to escape wildfires caused by a southern European heatwave. Similar fires ravaged parts of Spain, Portugal and Greece too, charring forests and farm land. 


Spain introduced a heat wave naming and ranking system, and gave the world its first-ever named heat wave—Zoe—that hit Seville, capital city of the Andalusia region and home to multiple UNESCO heritage sites in the third week of July, with blistering temperatures touching 43.3 Deg C,   


The United Kingdom had its hottest day ever, climbing past 40 deg C in Coningsby in Lincolnshire on 19 July, while the Arctic warms faster than the rest of the planet. 


These are the latest in a series of simultaneous heat waves across the planet. Heat wave conditions in the north-west US and south-west Canada have recorded 2022’s highest temperatures in that region too, at 40.2 deg C in Lytton and 45 deg C in Oregon state, USA, and forecasters expected it to get hotter. More than 85 million Americans currently face heat warnings and heat advisories, as well as warnings of severe storms and flooding. 

Read more - https://article-14.com/post/-this-is-a-life-or-death-thing-the-climate-emergency-is-quickly-degrading-life-support-systems-on-earth--62e34277bd038