Traffic Congestion in Delhi: Causes and Outcomes 🚦
Well, one of the most common and irritating problems that one faces in the national Capital of our country is getting caught in traffic jams. The daily commuting on the roads of Delhi is becoming longer and more gruelling day by day, depicting the failure of public transportation infrastructure to keep pace with the growing developing activities in the Capital. Sad, but true, one of the fastest growing and developed cities of the world, Delhi, is also renowned for all the wrong reasons.
Causes of traffic congestion in Delhi
Substantial increase in the number of vehicles on Delhi roads in recent years.  In fact, studies have shown more than a lakh vehicles are plying almost every day on most of the important corridors in Delhi.
Another major cause is that Delhi roads are characterised by mixed traffic, which include, personal vehicles, buses, trucks, three-wheelers, two-wheelers, including animal-driven carts and pedestrians. This creates problems for traffic management and leads to delays in movement of the traffic.
Increase in the growth of the population in Delhi, which includes the growing number of workforce, is another important cause.
 There has been inadequate public transport system in Delhi. In spite of metro and bus services, the transport system is not being able to keep pace with the growing population, as a result of which, more and more people use their private vehicles, leading to increased congestion on the roads.
Last, but not the least, ongoing construction of Metro network in various locations, damaged roads, repairing roads all contribute to severe traffic congestion in the city.
Outcomes
It has resulted into high rate of road traffic fatalities, making travelling and driving very unsafe in Delhi 
Traffic rules, red lights, lane driving are not followed which are both the causes and effects of traffic congestion in Delhi.
Inability to forecast travel time accurately.
Fuel wastage.
Increasing air and noise pollution.
Wear and tear on vehicles.
Increased road rage.
Blocked traffic also interferes with the passage of emergency vehicles etc.
(We have to think about the solution of this major problem )