By Akansha Srivastava 

The advertising revenue of the pandemic hit cinema halls and multiplexes is steadily recovering; although it is still short of the pre-pandemic levels. While brand advertising in cinema halls is slowly increasing with back-to-back film releases and increased footfall, reduced government advertising has continued to put pressure on the revenues. 

Rajesh Mishra, Executive Director and Group CEO, UFO Moviez, the in-cinema advertising platform, said, “The success of big budget movies in April'22 and May'22 provided an impetus to all revenue streams, especially the corporate advertisement revenue that has seen a substantial recovery. Whereas the lag in government advertisement spending continued to put pressure on the overall advertisement revenue.” 

PVR witnessed massive growth coming from ticketing and F&B sales, it said in its Q1FY23 earnings report that the growth in advertising revenue continues to lag. The company has reported an advertising income of Rs 63 crore which is 32% lower than the pre-pandemic figures. In other words, it reflects a 68% recovery in advertising income vis-à-vis pre-pandemic levels.

Inox Leisure reported Rs 30 crore advertising revenue in Q1FY23, depicting a steady recovery.

According to GroupM’s TYNY report of 2022, cinema advertising is expected to reach Rs 635 crore, growing by 467% from the previous year’s ad spends on the medium. Before the pandemic, the ad spend on cinema was Rs 1008 crore in 2019. It dipped to Rs 175 crore in 2020 and then Rs 112 crore in 2021.

Most recently, PVR Cinemas announced its latest innovation in the in-cinema advertising space since its come back after the pandemic. It introduced 270-degree on-screen experiential in-cinema advertising. Maruti Suzuki has become the first advertiser to use this platform to launch its new 2022 Maruti Suzuki Brezza in cinemas. 

Recently, the merger of Inox Leisure with PVR has also received ‘No Objection Certificates’ from the two stock exchanges (BSE and NSE).

Another trend that has come to the fore and is acting as a buoyant force for the multiplexes is the growing appetite of the audience to consumer regional language films. For example, ‘KGF: Chapter 2’ and ‘RRR’ were a superhit across the country. 

Read more
https://bestmediainfo.com/2022/08/reduced-government-spends-continue-to-put-pressure-on-cinema-advertising