By Jayanta Bhattacharya

Assam, with its vast network of rivers, is prone to natural disasters like floods and erosion, which have negatively impacted the state’s development for decades. In any other developed or developing economy, such abundant water resources in a state would have been considered a boon and would have resulted in the generation of enormous revenues for the government. But it is quite the opposite in Assam. Its bounteous rivers and other natural resources are today a bane for the state. Who is to be blamed? 

Let’s consider this. The state’s water resources ministry has claimed on its online platforms that with more than 50 tributaries feeding them, the Brahmaputra and Barak Rivers cause devastation every monsoon. But it is ironic that in the same vein, the ministry’s website also mentions that no long-term measures have been implemented to mitigate the state’s flood and erosion problems. The website reads: “Till date, only immediate and short-term measures are implemented by the state Water Resources Department.”

“My conscience suggests that neither the government nor the flood victims have learnt anything from previous devastations,” says Abhideep Choudhury, President, Journalist Association For Assam (JAFA). “What is heart-wrenching to me is watching the same suffering of the same people year after year, and it doesn’t cease. We have to write the same stories of death, loss and destruction year after year, but no one seems to care.”

According to the 12th report of the Standing Committee on Water Resources, of the state’s total area of over 78.44 lakh hectares, the Rashtriya Barh Ayog (National Commission on Floods) identified 31.05 lakh hectares as flood-prone. It comprises 10.2 per cent of the total flood-prone area of the country. During major floods, the area affected can be almost 50 per cent of Assam. At least 2,000 villages are exposed to extensive inundation every year. Since 1954, the total area eroded is 4,27,000 hectares, and the erosion rate has been 8,000 hectares yearly. The Brahmaputra River area has almost doubled in the last century.

Read the full story here:- https://theprobe.in/assam-floods-who-will-pull-the-brakes-on-this-cycle-of-devastation/