
The Chinese president, Xi Jinping after two years attended the 22nd Summit of the Council of heads of state of the Shanghai cooperation organisation (SCO) in Samarkhand, Uzbekistan on September 14. 
Jinping did not actively participated in the Summit nor did he meet Vladimir Putin, Narendra Modi or any other major leader of the group on the sidelines of the Summit
He even left the summit and returned to Beijing before the official winding up of the Summit, on September 16. 
Before starting his third term in power, he is believed to be detained at the airport and most probably held under house arrest in zongnanhai's house. 
There have been a continuous circulation of rumours on social media of a coup against Jinping, but there is no concrete evidence of coup or any disturbance in China till now. 
According to News Highland vision, former Chinese president, Hu Jintao and former chinese Premier, Wen Jiabao had pursuaded Song Ping (former member of standing committee).
Song ping, has always voiced his anti-Xi attitude and demanded the country to undergo changes. 
It is believed that Hu and Wen have retaken the control of the Central Guard Bureau (CGB). 
CGB provides personal protection to members of the political Bureau standing committee which is responsible for the protection of Xi Jinping and other CCP  leaders. 
The current situation is being controlled by Hu Jintao. 
Chinese military chief, Li Qiaoming has also turned Beijing into a military fort. The high waist has been blocked by the People's liberation army (PLA) and the protestors are being detained. 
In no time, Russian energy giant "Gazprom" suspended flow through the power station of Siberia pipeline that sent gas to China. 
But to support Jinping and making the protests hideous, Russia has justified the cut as "scheduled maintenance work" 
Moreover social media is flooded with reports that over the last 2 days Beijing Airport has cancelled more than 6000 flights and the Rail network is completely put out of function.
There is no official statement from Beijing yet, but an information portal in China is stating that this has done primarily because of current rise of covid-19 in the country.
