Arsenal and Mikel Arteta were under great pressure to make their extra break periods count.

In their first season without European football since the turn of the millennium,
Given their astute summer business, Arteta could not have imagined a third consecutive place
outside of the top seven, but the Spaniard's youthful guns served him well throughout the year.

Up until matchday 38, the Gunners were involved in a Champions League battle with arch-rivals
Tottenham Hotspur, but their dream return to Europe did not materialize, and Edu and co. face
another busy summer of transfer business.

SEASON OVERVIEW

While some of Arsenal's summer additions in 2021 did not go over well with the Arsenal faithful,
others were widely praised.

Arsenal languished at the bottom of the table after defeats to Brentford, Chelsea, and Manchester City without scoring a single goal, but the Gunners gradually recovered their stride
in the fall months, despite their COVID-19 and injury issues.

The Gunners jumped into the European debate early on thanks to an eight-game unbeaten run
in the Premier League.

After a difficult period on the pitch in December, it was revealed that Pierre-Emerick Aubameyang would be stripped of his captaincy for multiple disciplinary breaches, and the Gabonese international would no longer be a part of Arsenal's top-four push, having his contract
terminated and leaving on deadline day for Barcelona.

Arsenal began the New Year with a painful late 2-1 loss to Manchester City.

Many were quick to criticize Arsenal for their lack of winter incomings while sending players out
on loan like nobody's business, but Arsenal spoke for themselves on the pitch by winning six of
their last seven games before the March international break.

In April, however, the Gunners' momentum was shattered by defeats to Crystal Palace, Brighton
& Hove Albion, and Southampton, and the squad was also shocked by the revelation of
long-term injuries to two key cogs in Kierney and Thomas Partey, with the squad stretched to
the limit in the final few weeks.