Before the start of the UEFA Women's Championship England 2022, which will take place from Wednesday 6 to Sunday 31 July in England, and the CONCACAF W Championship 2022, which will take place from Monday 4 to Monday 18 July in Mexico, thirteen players from the Paris Saint-Germain women's team have joined up with their respective national teams. Here is an overview of their preparations.

SAKINA KARCHAOUI / GRACE GEYORO / SANDY BALTIMORE / KADIDIATOU DIANI / MARIE-ANTOINETTE KATOTO - FRANCE

The French women's team of Sakina Karchaoui, Grace Geyoro, Sandy Baltimore, Kadidiatou Diani and Marie-Antoinette Katoto played two friendly matches in preparation for the Euro, both of which resulted in big wins. The first of these was a 4-0 win over Cameroon on Saturday 25 June at the Stade Pierre Brisson in Beauvais. Katoto was a starter, but gave up her place at the break when Baltimore came on. Seven days later at the Stade de la Source in Orleans, Corinne Diacre's side recorded a clear 7-0 win over Vietnam, an match in which Diani, who provided an assist before scoring twice, and Katoto, who provided an assist and a goal, played the first 73 minutes. Baltimore played the last half hour of the game.

CELIN BIZET ILDHUSOY - NORWAY

Paris Saint-Germain striker Celin Bizet Ildhushoy's Norwegian women's team also had two warm-up matches on their schedule, and they too recorded two wins. The Grasshoppers beat New Zealand 2-0 on Saturday 25 June at the Ullevaal Stadion in Oslo, and then won 2-1 against Denmark four days later in Viborg. The Les Rouge et Bleu number 17 played the last half-hour of the first match.

RAMONA BACHMANN - SWITZERLAND

Paris Saint-Germain Women striker Ramona Bachmann's Swiss women's team also played two friendlies. The Swiss women's team suffered two heavy defeats, 7-0 against Germany on Friday 24 June at the Steigerwaldstadion in Erfurt and 4-0 against Euro hosts England six days later at the Letzigrund Stadium in Zurich. 

Read more
https://en.psg.fr/teams/womens-team/content/international-week-review-paris-saint-germain-2021-2022-1