Real Madrid raced off to a fantastic win against Barcelona in the first El Clasico of the season. Carlo Ancelotti's men registered a 3-1 victory over the Catalans in a highly intense match at the Santiago Bernabéu. Several great performances from the players both individually and collectively lead to a magnificent 3-1 win for the hosts. Let's have a look at the ratings of all the Real Madrid players from El Clasico:-
1) Andriy Lunin - 7
Was never really needed to do anything exceptional in order to stop the Barcelona attack. Made some good saves and ball distributions.
2) Dani Carvajal - 8
Was brilliant in terms of pressing up in Barcelona's half of the play. Made some vital interceptions.
3) Eder Militao - 8.5
Was absolutely brilliant with his defensive duties. Never let Lewandowski stand a chance and pose any serious threat with his shots or runs.
4) David Alaba - 7.5
Did a fine job in the defense to keep the attackers including Lewandowski quite.
5) Ferland Mendy - 6.5
Was good with the ball and defended well against Raphinha. His lapse however led to Barcelona's only goal of the 
match.
6) Tchouaméni - 7
Kept his game simple and helped his side gain possession by fulfilling his defensive responsibilities properly.
7) Toni Kroos - 9.5
Was undoubtedly the best player of the game, created the first goal and made valiant tackles too.
8) Luka Modric - 8.5
Was instrumental in the midfield once again as he created spaces and bamboozled the opposition's defence. 
9) Fede Valverde - 8
Scored a screamer to double Real's advantage inside the first half.
10) Vinicius Jr - 6.5
Failed to finish in a 1v1 chance against Ter Stegen which was ultimately scored by Benzema.
11) Karim Benzema - 7
Scored the opening goal and netted in a fine offside goal later on.
Substitutes:-
12) Camavinga - 6.5
Won his duels during his short period on the pitch.
13) Rodrygo -7.5
Earned a penalty and scored it during his 10 minutes on the field.
14) Marco Assensio - 1
Late substitute for Benzema
15) Rudiger - 1
Late substitute for Carvajal.