Last week, China's foreign minister made a surprise visit to Afghanistan. As it came just a day after the Taliban banned girls from education beyond the sixth grade, the visit by Wang Yi took many unawares. ( https://www.dailysabah.com/world/asia-pacific/chinas-foreign-minister-wang-makes-surprise-visit-to-afghanistan )

Wang met with the First Deputy Prime Minister, Mullah Abdul Ghani Baradar, and the acting Foreign Minister, Amir Khan Muttaqi and others. China, in a statement, said that it opposed "the political pressure" and economic sanctions on Afghanistan imposed "by non-regional forces at every turn." At the same time, he urged The Taliban to constitute an "inclusive" government. ( https://tolonews.com/afghanistan-177259 )

Today, China has announced that it will be holding a summit of foreign ministers of Afghanistan's neighboring countries in China on March 30 and 31. Foreign ministers or representatives from Pakistan, Iran, Russia, Tajikistan, Turkmenistan and Uzbekistan will be attending the meeting in Tunxi, East China's Anhui Province. ( https://www.globaltimes.cn/page/202203/1257025.shtml )

Although the agenda has not been announced, it is likely to focus on humanitarian assistance to the Afghan people. It could also have political undertones if the countries call on the U.S. to unfreeze the assets of the Afghan people.

China could be trying to take the lead on Afghanistan at a time when most of the Western countries led by the U.S. and the European Union are concentrating their energies on the Russian occupation of Ukraine. As Russia would also be participating in the conference, China could be sending a message that it is the prime mover on issues related to Afghanistan and the region as a whole. 

Moreover, China is deeply interested in increasing investments in various sectors, including mining, power and others in Afghanistan and a strong Taliban government that is in control of the country is essential for China to succeed. 

Read more:

China Signals It's Back to Business as Usual With Taliban Government:
https://thediplomat.com/2022/03/china-signals-its-back-to-business-as-usual-with-taliban-government/

China Pursues Afghanistan's Mineral Wealth After U.S. Exit:
https://www.wsj.com/articles/china-pursues-afghanistans-mineral-wealth-after-u-s-exit-11647172801