Sir Alex Ferguson is one of the best managers in club football. Taking the reins of the football club Manchester United in 1986, the Scottish struggled at the start of his Manchester United career for six years. In 1992, his job was threatened and was even on the firing line. However, he was able to garner his first title in 1992 and saved the season. From there, he did not look back. The manager went on to knock Liverpool off their perch in the next few years. Before he retired in 2013, the manager went on to win 13 Premier League titles, two Champions League titles along with several other domestic and international cups. 

The departure of Sir Alex Ferguson has done no good to Manchester United. The club is reaching a decade without a Premier League title and has seen rivals like Liverpool and Chelsea winning the league titles. They never came close to winning the title barring the previous season when they were lunging forward after 21 gameweeks. However, they could not keep up with the pace alongside Manchester City and conceded the title. 

The club has seen four permanent managers and three interim managers. In this piece, we shall look at how the managers after Sir Alex Ferguson have fared: 

David Moyes

David Moyes was the “Chosen One” after Manchester United failed to land Carlo Ancelotti and Jose Mourinho. The expectations were high on Moyes as Manchester United were fresh off the title win 2012/13. He was given a six year contract to rebuild the aging squad. However, things didn't go as they panned out.  For the first time in four decades, Manchester United failed to qualify for Europe let alone the Champions League. The manager was fired by the club on April 20, 2014, after a defeat to Everton. The club was 14 points behind fourth-placed Arsenal. He was sacked after 10 months in charge which is the third shortest managerial stint in Manchester United history. Moyes managed Manchester United in 51 games and had 26 wins and ten draws. He also had a Community Shield Trophy to his name. 

Score: 5.5/10