Keeping Bhiwani’s two-and-half-decade CWG boxing legacy intact, the girl power carries the baton in Birmingham

Since 1998 Commonwealth Games, Bhiwani boxers have its presence in India’s medal tally in every edition of the games; In 2022 CWG - Nitu clinches gold, while Jaismine wins bronze 

Saurabh Duggal 

Chandigarh: In 2004 Athens Olympics, out of the four-member Indian boxing contingent, three – Jitender Kumar (senior), Vijender Singh and Akhil Kumar – were from Bhiwani and in 2006 Melbourne Commonwealth Games, India won five medals in boxing. Three were from Bhiwani, including lone gold medallist Akhil Kumar.

The Beijing Olympics (2008) saw four out of the five boxers, who qualified for the quadrennial games, were from Bhiwani and Vijender’s bronze – first Olympic medal by an Indian boxer – got a global attention for the district and earned recognition of little Cuba of Indian boxing.

Post 2000 Sydney Olympics saw Bhiwani – a bordering district of Haryana towards Rajasthan – emerging as India’s boxing powerhouse.

But in the last couple of years, Bhiwani is losing its punch when it comes to the men’s boxing. It’s for the first time, since 1998 Commonwealth Games when Jitender (senior) became the first boxer from Bhiwani to compete in the CWG, that there has been no boxer from Bhiwani in the Indian men’s boxing contingent in the games.

In the absence of their male counterpart, the girl power kept the Bhiwani’s boxing flag flying high in Birmingham.

Bhiwani girls Nitu Ghanghas clinched gold in 48kg, while Jaismine Lamboria won bronze in 60kg.

The 12-member Indian boxing contingent in Birmingham won seven medals, including three gold. While, in the women’s section, out of four, three – Nikhat Zareen (gold), Nitu (gold) and Jaismine (bronze) – made it to the podium.

The presence of Bhiwani in Indian women boxing in the Birmingham Games is 50 percent, while the contribution in medals is 66 percent.   
“For over two decades, Bhiwani has been a flag bearer of Indian boxing. Earlier, the boys used to carry forward the legacy, but now the baton is in the hands of our girl boxers,” said Dronachary awardee boxing coach from Bhiwani Jagdish Singh.