Right off the bat it cannot be emphasized enough that Scorn is not a nice experience. It is incessantly grotesque, dark, morbid, disgusting, creepy and all the other anecdotes that can ever be used to describe a journey down a repulsive horror ride of exquisitely and splendidly refined lumps of anxiety and hopelessness.
Without a single piece of dialogue, Scorn’s gameplay speaks volumes regarding its dark and bleak atmosphere as nothing but an asphyxiating and gnawing sense of restless silence seems to hold you in its cold embrace.
The game at its conclusion may leave you hanging with more asked questions than answered ones, so don’t be surprised if you are confused. Graphically, Scorn is oddly and grotesquely beautiful with its focus on disgustingly detailed body horror, fleshy slimy art style and H.R. Giger inspired architecture creating some very vividly detailed, morose, disgusting and creepy visual moments. However, this abnormal focus on body horror does tend to wear off at the end of the game and can render players neutral to it.
It is also hard to really care much about the main character as we can’t relate to him, the protagonist of the game is a silent spectre waking in a hellish world trying to escape this ghoulish purgatory. 
Your character has no personality and even the enemies seem lifeless programs who are disgusting and merely existing. The gameplay can be identified as a first person shooter survival horror though it is nothing very special.
Mechanically, Scorn is pretty good game and its puzzles are the highlight that deftly incorporate its body horror, though it tends to wear out its welcome as much of the gameplay seems to be centred around useless wandering. To make matters worse, Scorn's areas all look the same, which makes the game confusing to navigate and incredibly tedious.
You get lucky, you find your puzzle quickly or otherwise bang your head around wandering aimlessly for hours. Plus,  Scorn does not allow for manual saves instead having a checkpoint system that makes things worse. Overall, Scorn is a pretty good game with an incredible art style and some very clear flaws.
Score: 7/10