Abortion rates have fallen steadily for decades even before when laws become restrictive. according to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, Abortion in the U.S. was highest in 1981, at a rate of 29.3 per 1,000 women between the ages of 15 and 44 the number has fallen by three-fifth since then and finally in 2019 the rate was 11.4.

This would be the result of increased knowledge and use of contraceptives. This will change if roe v/s wade is overturned. Some reports say that the number of abortions could fall as much as 13percent.

Another reason according to the research has shown that increases in distance to clinics are related to lower abortion rates, especially for women with restricted resources and difficult personal circumstances. Women in States where abortion is difficult to have to travel miles which are not always possible resulting in fewer abortions per year. 

According to CDC, In 2019 at least 629,898 abortions were reported in the United States. Reversible contraception has a greater role in this decade's long decrease in abortion as per experts. 

“Fewer people are getting pregnant overall because of improved access,” said Sarah Munro, a health outcomes researcher and professor in the department of obstetrics and gynaecology at the University of British Columbia in Canada. IUDs and contraception implants are a boon to women as they are long-lasting contraceptives. Permanent contraception (sterilization) is first at 28%, birth control pills second at 21% followed by IUDs and birth control implants at 16%, according to the CDC. 

Americans with health insurance have also increased in the years which was ensured through the Affordable Care Act of 2010, which is also thought to have contributed to the drop in abortions because more people had access to both health care and insurance that paid for contraception. Let's not forget this data doesn't in any way find a way to justice the rights of women in deciding what their body wants. If contraceptives fail or it is by an accident or non-consensual sex- women, as well as transgender men, should be able
choose what they want to