Our official national day (January 26) is quickly approaching, and what better way to embrace and celebrate our unique Australian culture than by sharing great food with friends and family? 


And, with so many iconic Australian dishes to choose from, there will undoubtedly be something for everyone!

1. Snags
Step 1/3

Slice the onions, then sauté them in two tablespoons of oil, over medium heat, until golden brown.

Step 2/3

Add two tablespoons of oil to the pan, then add the sausages and fry them until browned all over. You will need to filp them from time to time, so they cook evenly. Once nearly, done, slice all the sausages through the middle to butterfly them, and turn them over, so the inside can cook as well.

Step 3/3

For serving, place each sausage diagonally on a slice of white bread, top with onions, and drizzle with either tomato or barbecue sauce.



2. Pies

3. Vegemite

4. Sausage rolls

5. Prawns

6. Salads

7. Damper

8. Lamb
Soak the lambs’ brains in a large bowl of cold water for 1-2 hours to remove the excess blood.

Carefully separate the lobes by removing the white central cortex in the middle.

Bring a large pot of water to the boil and season it with some sea salt.

Use a slotted spoon to carefully poach the brains in the simmering water for 3-5 minutes. You don’t want to cook it completely, but just long enough for the brains to firm up and become easier to handle.

Use a slotted spoon to remove the brains to a plate lined with kitchen paper and allow to cool.

Fill a large pan with enough vegetable oil for deep-frying (about 5cm or 2 inch depth) and heat to about 180°C (350°F).

Dip the poached brains in the beaten egg and lightly coat with some flour.

Deep-fry the brains in batches for about 5 minutes each, or until they turn lovely and golden.

Drain on some kitchen paper and sprinkle over some sea salt flakes.

Serve immediately.

9. Savoury slices

10. Burgers

11. Steak

12. Calamari

13. Fish

14. Savoury Muffins

15. Skewers

16. Pumpkin Scones