Canberra's culinary scene is booming, with clever local and imported chefs putting a savvy spin on the freshest produce. When visiting the capital of culture, don't miss these mouth-watering tastes.

1. Breakfast at Lonsdale Street Roasters

One of the anchor tenants in the revitalisation of inner-city Braddon, Lonsdale Street Roasters draws a steady stream of visitors and locals in search of the perfect cup of joe. Created by Alastair Evans, the artisan coffee came first - and what glorious coffee it is - before demand for quality cuisine led to the opening of Lonsdale Street Eatery. Joined by foodie Paul Hutt, Evans now offers a well-edited menu of premium quality paninis and Euro-influenced bakery treats. 

2. Chairman & Yip's famous duck pancakes

Government power may shift hands, policies might change and election promises will be broken, but one thing you can always count on is the sensual delight of a plateful of roast duck and mushroom pancakes from upscale restaurant Chairman & Yip. Prepared tableside, the pancakes are delicately thin, the duck is crunchy and tender in all the right spots, the sweet and salty hoisin dressing brings the silky mushrooms to new heights.

3. Late night yabby jaffle at Monster kitchen and bar

Of course you don't have to eat Monster kitchen and bar's yabby jaffle at midnight - the bar menu is available from noon 'til 1am, after all - but somehow it just tastes better at the tail end of a big night out. Served piping hot and loaded with butter, horseradish and creme fraiche, the jaffle is one of chef Sean McConnell's gifts to the city's hungry tums.

4. Pâtissez's freakshake

In a defiant show of caloric anarchy in the face of a world obsessed with low-cal, low-carb, no-sugar, no-fun fads, Pâtissez's indulgent dessert menu is gaining international fame.

5. Brodburger

You try telling Canberrans it's just a burger. Brodburger's beast of a concoction, the Broddeluxe, is the super-supreme of Aussie fast food, served with attitude and panache at the restaurant's Kingston Foreshore location. 