I have heard some of my friends sharing their experiences on panic attacks. Now what is a panic attack? Let's know further about it

A panic attack is an episode of intense fear that come up as it gets triggered with severe physical reactions. This occurs mostly when there is no real danger or a particular cause. Panic attacks can make the person experiencing it frightened. Common symptoms of panic attacks are, one may think they are losing control over themselves, or one may feel that they are experiencing a heart attack or might even die due to the intense fear. 

Panic attacks can hit one swiftly and can also subside instantly  here are few strategies that can help one to manage these attacks. Some of them can help one at the moment, and the others can aid for long term. 

Seek counseling 

Through Cognitive Behavioral Therapy (CBT) and other forms of counseling it can help a person who have panic disorders and panic attacks. Through proper counselling, it helps one to change their view on a challenge or the triggering situation. This will help in finding a new way of seeing the challenge or situation. 

Use deep breathing 

Panic attacks most common symptom js hyperventilating and this can lead to inflate the fear, by practicing deep breathing, it can reduce this symptom during the panic attack. 

Recognize that you’re having a panic attack 

Need to become aware that you are undergoing a panic attack rather than a heart attack, it is something that will occur in episodes and so relax down. And soon consult a doctor who could help you further. By having a knowledge about the condition is better as it can help one to reduce the fear associated to it and can look for the needed support. 

Close your eyes 

Some panic attacks come from triggers that overwhelm you. If you’re in a fast-paced environment with a lot of stimuli, this can feed your panic attack. 

To pacify the stimuli close your eyes during the panic attack. And through this any extra stimuli can be blocked and it makes one focused to their breathing. 

Sources - https://www.healthline.com/health/how-to-stop-a-panic-attack