By Tanzila Shaikh 

Many a time right before the script/concept is going to get on the floor, there is a complete change in the idea and a new script/concept becomes the face of the campaign. While there are very rare case scenarios when the entire idea is changed right before the execution, this totally happens in the creative industry given the nature of how ideas evolve.

Creativity knows no bounds, and this is especially true in the field of advertising where the sky could be the limit. But how much room for last-minute changes or even a complete overhaul of the concept does the ad industry allow? BestMediaInfo.com reached out to experts to find out how.

Since there are huge sums of money involved in the production of a TVC, it is mostly very difficult to change the entire concept and start afresh. Apart from the money involved, the market research, as well as other logistics on board, are shaken up by the sudden shift in the idea.

We spoke to a lot of experts in the advertising industry who seconded that it is next to impossible to change the entire concept before it goes on the floor. 

However, we also dug out some instances where it happened that the idea has been changed completely. Kash Sree, the renowned Executive Creative Director, shared some of the campaigns that were totally changed from what they were planned out to be initially. “If you have a body, then you’re an athlete,” Nike ad, the initial script was different and something cliched, it was changed quite late in the process. The ad won the Advertising Emmy that year. 

https://www.kashsree.com/#/nikemove/

Another example that Sree gave was this film when they saw this artist playing with the golf ball and went ahead to make it into a campaign. The original script was still made into a film, but the brand went ahead with this clip of 30 seconds as the face of the campaign. 

https://www.kashsree.com/#/nikegolf/

Read the full story here:- https://bestmediainfo.com/2022/05/an-idea-can-change-your-life-but-what-if-the-whole-idea-changes