Your body stores calcium by depositing the mineral during the first 25 years of your life. However, this ‘bone bank’ stops depositing calcium as you turn 30 and starts cashing in on the stored calcium.

Running is one of the easiest and most accessible exercises. Its benefits are dynamic, with a positive impact on the heart, brain, muscles, bones etc. It also serves as a means to lose weight, feel energetic or simply have a good time, making it a great exercise for one’s overall health.
But, as with any new habit that involves a lot of physical activity, runners also need to make certain dietary modifications that not only help sustain the habit, but also boost performance. Running is recognised as a high-impact exercise, which means that when you run, your foot bears around three times your bodyweight through every stride, which puts stress on your bones, said Vikas Singh, CEO and Founder, fitpage.

“One way to mitigate such stressors is to fulfill your nutritional needs by getting adequate amount of calcium in your diet,” he said.

📍Bone health in women runners-

Almost all or 99 per cent of all calcium is stored in bones and teeth, highlighting the significance of calcium in bone health. Menstruation, pregnancy, and menopause add a greater significance to calcium needs, which tend to increase as you age or work towards improving your performance.

There is also a higher risk of osteoporosis in those regularly performing a high-impact exercise like running. Osteoporosis indicates compromised bone health, in which your bones become weak and brittle to a degree that a simple act of running can also cause a fracture. And the probability of developing osteoporosis increases if you are training for more than seven hours per week, said Singh.

📍Women runners and calcium needs-

Your body stores calcium by depositing the mineral during the first 25 years of your life. However, this ‘bone bank’ stops depositing calcium as you turn 30 and starts cashing in on the stored calcium.

Read more- https://indianexpress.com/article/lifestyle/health/calcium-women-runner-foods-running-bone-health-7723585/lite/