The Economic Survey reported that India’s expenditure on health (Centre and states included) increased to 2.1% of GDP in 2021-22, up from previous years (1.8% in 2020-21 and 1.4% in 2019-20). The rise is explained by increase in health expenditure during Covid as well as the decision to include expenditure on nutrition, water supply, sanitation and air pollution control under an expanded definition of health. In the current Budget, important social determinants of health (such as drinking water, housing and education) have been addressed. Tap water would be provided to 38 million more households, while provision of housing would be increased under the PM Awas Yojana. Digital classrooms will extend to schools along the country. Increased investment in emission-free public transport, battery-swapping facilities and incentives to reduce crop burning will help to address air pollution.

Within the health sector itself, the increases have been less than expected. With an allocation of 37,000 crore, the National Health Mission received an increase of 7% over last year’s expenditure. The need to galvanise the slow-paced urban health mission and strengthen rural primary healthcare across the country calls for higher allocations. Health workforce expansion in primary care is especially urgent in view of the plan to expand services through health and wellness centres. Allocation for the Pradhan Mantri Jan Arogya Yojana (PMJAY) is static at6,412 crore, as the allocations remained substantially under-utilised in the past two years. Total allocation for the health infrastructure mission is 5,156 crore, which is surprising since the scheme is designed to spend64,180 crore over a six-year period and spent only 900 crore since its launch in October last year. AYUSH gets a 14.5% increase, while Swasthya Suraksha Yojana, which focuses on expansion of tertiary care infrastructure, gets a 35.1% increase. The department of health research has been allocated3,200.65 crore, which represents a rise of 3.9 %. Given the need for strong impetus to scale up research in both communicable, non-communicable and nutrition-related disorders as relevant to the Indian context and also extend health systems research into implementation and evaluation research related to national health programmes, this is less than anticipated.

Read more- https://www.financialexpress.com/budget/budget-lacks-push-for-primary-healthcare/2423447/lite/