"Attack makes you win Matches, But Defense makes you win Tittles."

This is a famous saying in the football world. And no body can deny this fact that how much important is the defence.
With great importance in the team comes a great responsibility, in order to serve the requirements the player needs to have a lot of experience and tactical awareness. 

HOW TO PLAY AS A CENTER BACK ?

A Center Back should be the most experienced and hardworking player in the squad. This is why most of the managers prefer Center-back as the captain. 

The technical attributes an ideal Center Back should have are as follows- 

DEFENSIVE AWARENESS- 

The center back should always be aware of his position and should take charge in controlling the defense line. 

Whenever facing any attack, the defender should always try to keep the defense line away from the goal post. 

Creating offside-traps to make the striker go offside while maintaining enough distance to chase back if needed. 

MAN MARKING- 

The most important attribute a center back have is marking the striker at every minute of the game. The goal is to not let the striker breath to even breath alone. 

As strikers are cleaver and speedy as compared to the defenders, it is really important to mark them. 

ARIEL SUPERIORITY- 

The Center backs are always superior in the air than then any other players. The ariel-superiority is gained by improving the Jumping and Heading technique.

Focusing on the lower body and core strength while learning the proper technique is the main key point of getting superior in Air. 

TACKLING -

A perfect time tackle is what makes an professional defender different from the amateur. 

Anticipation, Calmness and Cleverness is required to time a tackle. Waiting for the striker to show his move and then timing the tackle accordingly.

PHYSICAL CONTACT- 

Mostly Center Backs have good height and buffed body stature. A Defender should be strong like a war-tank. 

Receiving and making shoulder pushes are the part of the game. So as to sustain this strength based game one should be buffed up.

THANK YOU ⚽