 Over the course of the year, Gotham Knights has been one of the most covered and anticipated games in the media. In many ways, even though not set in the same universe or having any connection to the Batman Arkham games, Gotham Knights can be considered the spiritual successor to the Arkham games.
Gotham Knights follows Batman’s four proteges, Nightwing, Robin, Red Hood and Batgirl as they fight to protect Gotham city after the death of the Dark Knight. 
While there have been several flashes and details regarding the game, a recent hands-on preview of the game has given us a more accurate picture of the upcoming action game.
On the surface level, Gotham Knights combat is very similar to the Arkham games as the foundation of the combat is indeed built on them. 
However, the game soon goes in a different direction thus managing to establish its own identity and not merely be some sort of cheap imitation. 
The player who have tested the game’s combat have said that while every character is indeed unique having their own sets of special abilities, the combat is built too much around familiarity and can start to feel boring.
Furthermore, the stealth system has received a lot of criticism as it has been called very sloppy and a downfall when compared to the Arkham games, while the environment of the Gotham city has been called too posh and refined simply lacking that criminal element that makes Gotham a hell hole to live in.
But on a more positive note, the multiplayer and the vast and beautiful level design combined with the nice lore and characterization of its heroes indeed make it a compelling game to play for many as every hero at the start of the game suffers from an inferiority complex, finding it tough to live up to their mentor’s legacy. 
So far, the opinions are somewhat mixed, though that is not surprising as the Arkham games set a very high benchmark and if Gotham Knights cannot reach it, no one can really blame it. Gotham Knights will release  on October 21 for PC, Xbox Series X|S, and PS5.