Natural Emerald—The Gemstone
of Communicative Mercury continues....

Emerald in Leo Ascendant 

Mercury becomes the wealth-creating planet in the Leo ascendant as it becomes the Lord of the 2nd house of wealth, bank balance, speech, domestic atmosphere and the 11th house of profits, social circle and fame. 

Individuals can wear emerald if Mercury is posited in 2nd house, 4th house, 5th house, 7th house, 9th house, 10th house or 11th house when the Mercury major period or sub period is operating. Emerald birthstones will lead to increase of wealth, power and social circle.

Emerald in Virgo Ascendant

Mercury becomes one of the most important planets for this ascendant by becoming the ascendant lord itself. As explained earlier, the ascendant lord is the most important planet in an individual’s life as it has the potential to impact at least 40-50% of life affairs. 

Mercury in this ascendant becomes the Lord of the 1st house/ascendant and the 10th quadrant house of career and profession. Individuals who have the placement of Mercury in the 1st house, 2nd house, 4th house, 5th house, 9th house, 10th house, 11th house should wear an emerald for life. 

The emerald blesses the individual with good health, vitality, immunity, an impressive personality besides giving career gains and recognition.

Emerald in Libra Ascendant

Mercury is an auspicious planet for this ascendant as it becomes the lord of auspicious houses and it is also a friend of the ascendant lord Venus. In this ascendant, Mercury becomes the Lord of the 9th house of fate and fortune and the 12th house of expenditure, life in a foreign place etc. 

Individuals with the placement of Mercury in the 1st house, 4th house, 5th house, 7th house, 9th house, 10th house or 11th house can wear emerald for life. 

Those individuals with the placement of Mercury in the 12th house and those who are in export/import business can wear emerald after a trial for days by tying the emerald in a cloth on the right arm after assessing suitability and tolerance.

To be continued...