Amid evidence of rape and other forms of sexual violence committed by Russian forces in Ukraine, the foreign affairs minister of the Netherlands, the Prosecutor of the International Criminal Court and the EU Commissioner for Justice recently hosted the Ukraine Accountability Conference.

At that conference, 45 countries — including Canada — adopted a statement strongly condemning the use of sexual violence as a method of warfare in Ukraine and underlining the need for specialized support and gender-responsive treatment for survivors.

A bald man with a beard and glasses in a navy suit with a light blue tie.
Canada’s Justice Minister David Lametti also indicated that Canada is supporting a number of international and domestic justice efforts to address conflict-related sexual violence in Ukraine.

Conflict-related sexual violence has been reported in Ukraine since the 2014 takeover of Crimea and installation of Russian-controlled forces in Donbas.

The United Nations Office of the High Commissioner for Human Rights documented multiple examples of conflict-related sexual violence between 2014-21 against both women and men.

Tortured while detained
Most incidents occurred while the victims were detained or otherwise deprived of their freedom by armed groups and government forces. Perpetrators used beatings and electrocution of the genitals, rape, threats of rape and forced nudity to torture, punish, humiliate or extract confessions from the victims.

To further pressure the victims, the perpetrators threatened also to detain, abduct, rape, injure or kill the victims’ children and other relatives. Sexual violence against women was also documented outside of detention, including in residential areas close to military positions.

In addition, female victims reported being subjected to forced nudity, sexual touching and sexual assault in exchange for passage through checkpoints.

Given these and other similar reports from human rights organizations, it’s unsurprising that the Prosecutor of the International Criminal Court concluded in 2019 that there’s reasonable basis to believe that the war crimes of rape and other forms of sexual violence have been committed in eastern Ukraine.

Read more: https://theconversation.com/how-to-ensure-justice-for-the-survivors-of-wartime-sexual-violence-in-ukraine-181690