A lot of people may not realise but Delhi-NCR has a pretty big EMU trains network. Of course it can't be compared to Mumbai but it is a pretty wide network in itself. Mathura-Palwal-Faridabad-Delhi is one such route. Alwar-Gurgaon-Delhi is another. Meerut-Ghaziabad-Delhi is another. Panipat-Sonipat-Delhi is another. 

The travel in EMU (Electrical Multiple Unit) trains is dirt cheap. A one-time ticket is just Rs 10-15. Perhaps Rs 20 is the highest price. The monthly ticket or pass costs Rs 250 or so. 

These trains carry the real working class, small businessmen, and junior level government officials. You may live in Faridabad, and catch an EMU to Shivaji Bridge in the heart of Connaught Place, or to Sadar Baazar, Asia's largest wholesale market, in just Rs 10. 

Thanks to the pretty cheap tickets, these EMUs are usually jampacked. But over the years they have become very unreliable. In the last two decades, there has been an explosion in the number of long-distance trains from Delhi. These trains get priority. Hence an EMU journey, say from Faridabad to Shivaji Bridge that should take 40 minutes, often takes 2 hours. The EMU trains have to stop to let an Express train pass and that happens very frequently in the peak morning and evening hours. And obviously, there is absolutely no reliability in terms of timings.

But the Railways have not been able to get a dedicated track laid for EMU trains. 

The people who travel in them are invisible. They stay in places like Ballabhgarh, Palwal, Dohai, Shakur Basti, Raja-ki-Mandi etc. Some of them are factory workers, working in factories that are nothing but sweat shops. Some of them are small businessmen, buying goods in bulk from Sadar Baazar, and lugging them back to their small towns to sell. Some of them are teachers in private schools, getting a salary of as low as Rs 5000 per month. A lot of them work as maids and drivers. And then there are the lucky few, the elite - those with a government job. 

It's a motley mix.