After decades the people of Kashmir will be able to watch movies on the big screen as the first multiplex is coming up in Srinagar.
The Dhar family and INOX, one of the major film distributors and theatre chains, worked together to create the multiplex, likely to be thrown open to the public in September.
The people of Kashmir whose entertainment was so far limited to cable and dish TV would be able to watch the latest Hindi films as well as Hollywood movies in the three movie theatres with a combined seating capacity of at least 520 people.
The multiplex, which is equipped with the latest sound systems and it is exquisitely crafted in the INOX multiplex will be opened for the public at cantonment zone area of Shivpora in the city soon.
Apart from watching movies the multiplex would have numerous food courts and other entertainment options for kids also.
Cinema houses got shut in 1990 after the separatist armed insurgency started.
Vikas Dhar, the owner of the multiplex said that there would be three auditoriums of different capacity. 
"The project has been started with the core of our heart…and we think it is better…but how much better it is time will tell,'' 
Dhar said “INOX will bring the latest Hollywood and Bollywood films and hopefully we will cover the entire diaspora of the Indian film industry to showcase in Kashmir”.
He said “there is very old connection between the Indian film industry and the people of Kashmir which I think was broken for some time and now the time has come to rejoint that relation.”
“Come with your family and watch films here and hopefully you will visit here again and again”, he added.
The Manager of the multiplex Vishak said that they have used all systems of INOX, which is the largest entertainment company in India.
He said there would be a Dolby music system, silver screen and laser projector. He said apart from modern facilities, the design of the multiplex will have a tinge of Kashmiri culture in the form of a paper-mache and Khatamband ceiling.