 
There are several incredible games in the stealth action genre, but even after all these years, Dishonored takes the cake. While its sequels were great in their own right, the first game has remained unparalleled in its success of making you truly feel like an assassin in the shadows.
 
Thief is the only other game which comes close to the stealth factor of Dishonored, but its problems of repetition and lame design make it boring. Try 5-10 hours, 20 if you are feeling generous of the same sneak in, find some object and sneak out pattern and you are bound to fall asleep.
 
Dishonored is remarkably similar in its stealth aspects and yet so different that you just can’t compare them. One emphasizes repetition, the other incentivizes and rewards ingenuity and strategy. With so many options at your disposal, boredom never sets in.
 
Thinking outside the box is rewarded with different reactions by NPCs and outcomes, you can go full stealth, ghost mode and kill no one throughout the game, or kill very few people which gives you the good ending and different but positive reactions by allies. Going more on the murderous route, changes not only the reactions of allies or the outcome, but also the affects their fate. Furthermore, the number of guards, rats and infection is also determined by the level of chaos.
 
Even your reputation as an assassin is affected. Going the stealth route will make you a figure shrouded in mystery, while the path of bloodshed will make you a known killer with your mask on the wanted posters.  All of the missions are varied and you have complete freedom over choosing your approach over how you wish to accomplish your objectives, making each playthrough a new and different and new experience.
 
Play Thief once and you are done with every mission feeling the same. Play Dishonored and every mission can become different because it all depends on your approach. It is the smallest of details that make the small but pretty noticeable differences, and that is what makes Dishonorable such a brilliant game.
 
 