Health officials from Qatar’s Ministry of Public Health as well as the World Health Organisation have implemented a comprehensive set of measures to mitigate any potential public health risks at this year’s FIFA World Cup Qatar 2022.
The move, part of a three-year Sport for Health partnership between the MoPH and WHO, is designed to guarantee the security of participants, officials, spectators, and nearby residents throughout the global sporting tournament.
Along with health promotion, the partnership maintains a firm pillar on health security in a bid to ensure participants in major athletic events are safeguarded and kept in good health conditions.
To tackle the potential rise of infectious disease epidemics, the partnership oversees risk assessment, mass collection techniques inside and outside of stadiums, event-based surveillance, and risk communications.
An estimated number of 1.5 million fans are expected to visit Qatar for the major sporting tournament.
“Mega sports events like the World Cup are attended by significant numbers of people which has the potential to strain public health and response resources of the host nation or community,” the Director of the Health Protection and Communicable Disease Control Department at the MoPH, Dr Hamad Al Romaihi, said.
Al Romaihi further highlighted Qatar’s evident progress in the health sector, namely the ten new hospitals and 16 new primary health centres operating since 2010, which drastically boosted the country’s capacity across the system.
He also highlighted “an expanded national Ambulance Service and the opening of the region’s largest Trauma and Emergency Center in 2019.”
“We have placed great importance on building a strong, highly skilled team of health-care professionals across the system to lead the delivery of high-quality care to Qatar’s population.”
“All football fans visiting Qatar for the FIFA World Cup can be reassured that, if needed, they will receive health-care services from Hamid Medical Centre teams on par with the very highest international standards,” noted Al Romaihi.
With the help of the Sport for Health collaboration, WHO is assisting MoPH by offering technical advice on how to use the risk-based approach when making plans for high-profile events and improving response capabilities, such as outbreak management.
Read more on this https://dohanews.co/qatar-teams-up-with-who-to-tackle-public-health-security-at-world-cup/
