1. Kim Da Mi at Fendi SS’23
The Our Beloved Summer actress showed up to the runway show in a Fendi gray skirt along with a matching jacket and knee-length stockings with the sparkling Fendi Baguette she carried in hand.
2. Yugyeom at Onitsuka Tiger SS’23
GOT7’s Yugyeom was every bit of cool in his casual monochrome suit for the Onitsuka Tiger show.
3. Kim Tae Ri at Prada SS’23
The Twenty-Five Twenty-One actress officially became a Prada ambassador last year, and she made her attendance in a dazzling Prada slip dress. 
4. Sana at Prada SS’23
TWICE’s Sana wore a sophisticated iteration of the little black dress with silver pearls draped across her chest and a stunning pair of green heels.
5. Joy at Tod’s SS’23
Red Velvet Joy’s appearance Seen with a chunky belt that’s very Y2K, the South Korean singer certainly made an impression with this look.
6. Lee Min Ho at Boss SS’22
Fresh off his attendance for the Fendi Baguette‘s 25th anniversary in New York, it was an unexpected surprise for fans to see Lee Min Ho attend Boss’s show in Milan. The brand ambassador sat in the front row in a grey suit, casual coolness complete with a sleek crossover bag worn over the chest.
7. IU at Gucci Twinsburg
South Korean diva, actress and singer IU wore an Exquisite Gucci grey and multicolour wool all-over GG motif two button peak lapel suit with an ivory silk GG shirt, black leather tie, black patent leather high heels with ankle-strap closure and a beige and ivory GG Supreme canvas Gucci Horsebit 1955 mini top handle bag.
8. Chaeyoung at Ferragamo SS’23
TWICE’s Chaeyoung attended the Ferragamo show just as Black British designer Maximilian Davin made his debut as Ferragamo’s new creative director. Chaeyoung stood out in a white cropped blazer and mini skirt set along with the contrast of black tights, heels, and a black purse.
9. Lee Sung Kyung at Moncler’s 70th Anniversary Show
South Korean actress Lee Sung Kyung still shined in her Moncler floral fit for the brand’s 70th anniversary.