While getting older menopause alone is just not a concern but now a new study shows that more than half of the women at the age of 50 or above are more prone to experience thinning of hair. These physical changes can affect their self esteem. 

The scalps of nearly 200 postmenopausal women was scrutinized and it was found that 52.2 percent was detected for some hair thinning, a condition called female pattern hair loss stated the Thai researchers, according to the reports published on Wednesday. 60 percent of low self esteem was found on participants with severe increased hair loss. 

Under the guidance of Dr. Sukanya Chaikittisilpa of Chulalongkorn University in Bangkok, the researchers recruited a team of 178 women who were consulting a menopause clinic. The hormone levels, the density of the hair in the middle of the scalp where the hair loss generally begins. 

The researchers, who couldn’t be reached for comment, found that among those with hair loss, 73.2 percent had mild hair loss, 22.6 percent had moderate loss and 4.3 percent had severe loss. In addition to age, a higher body mass index was associated with an increased prevalence and worsening of the condition. 

What are treatments for female hair loss? 

While it's unclear exactly why menopausal women’s hair starts to thin, the new research suggested declining estrogen levels. 

“Estrogen receptors are present in the hair follicles, which hints at its association with the withdrawal of estrogen at menopause that may affect hair growth,” the researchers wrote. Other hormonal changes may affect scalp hair and accelerate the change from the growth phase to the resting phase of hair growth. 

While thinning hair in an aging man has been “normalized,” few women are prepared for it, said Dr. Mary Rosser, director of integrated women’s health at the Columbia University Irving Medical Center in New York. Mothers rarely, if ever, talk to their daughters about menopause symptoms, so, for many, menopause-related hair thinning can be a shock, said Rosser, who sends her patients with hair loss to a dermatologist. 

Sources - https://www.nbcnews.com/health/health-news/female-hair-loss-menopause-treatment-study-rcna16389