Young people with weapons are a dangerous signal at all times. American history gave a sense of machismo and heroic position associated with guns to the youth. Especially in a state like Texas, we have seen movie references wherein Texas citizens feel pride in their affinity towards guns-showcasing violence to be normal in Texas. It is a very much depressing fact that most firearm violence and gun homicides are perpetrated by relatively young people, with homicide risk between the ages of 18 and 24. Research finds out several opinions on the issue. Some experts explain that such violent behaviour pertained to ongoing brain development, especially in areas regulating impulse control, judgment and long-term planning. Narratives of association with teenagers-masculinity and the heroic statue of guns are seen as another factor. Collective data striking proportion reveal a desire to claim masculine identities through their accession and use of firearms.  Irony prevails as the young people are most vulnerable to committing crimes- they are the ones who have the least history or criminal record. They haven’t been alive long sufficient to create a specific, legally actionable paper trail that could be referred to by medical or legal authorities after a background check to deny them access to lethal weaponry. Even a physiatric background check is almost impossible in the case of the youth-which leads us to the mental health, traumas and upbringing of the American youth.

 Are our households so unsafe that the children develop violent attitudes and a desperate need for guns? Aren’t parents even recognising the traumatic experiences of their children? Toxic masculinity which society or even their family members release affects children and turns out to be eager to showcase masculinity with guns? We control our children from going out to late-night parties, we often know even if they sneak out at night. Why are we even not bothered when your child needs a rifle as a gift for their eighteenth birthday?

Reference: Washington Post