Canadian truckers opposing the vaccine mandate have blocked the capital Ottawa and the main highway to the U.S., prompting the Biden Administration to urge the Canadian prime minister Justin Trudeau to take action against them. Even a court ruling against them has not successfully moved them away.

But thousands of miles away from Ottawa, the truckers are having an impact in France and Belgium.

Police in Paris had to face rowdy protests inspired by "Freedom Convoy" protests of truckers in Canada and had to fire teargas to control the mob. Hundreds of protesters tried to make their way into the central district of Paris to disrupt life. (https://www.bbc.com/news/world-europe-60359061)

President Emmanuel Macron's government is trying to keep demonstrations under control as he fears that they could go out of control just before the general elections in France.

The Netherlands and Belgium are also seeing copycat protests inspired by those in Canada. Their reasons are also the same— against the government's anti-Covid restrictions. At a time when almost all of Europe is opening up with most restrictions lifted, some restrictions are in place for those who have not chosen to get vaccinated. And since in France, Belgium and others, people have to carry vaccine passes if they are asked to produce or face fines, the anti-vaxxers call this discriminatory, hence the large-scale protests. (https://www.france24.com/en/live-news/20220212-canada-style-convoy-blocks-netherlands-the-hague)

Austria and Belgium have banned large convoys of cars from entering the capitals. The Canadian truckers' influence has reached as far as Australia and Canada.

Right-wing politicians and some social groups have supported these protests, saying that anti-vaccine advocates should not be treated as second-class citizens in their own country and that their freedom of choice should be accepted. For instance, Marine Le Pen, the presidential candidate of the far-right National Rally, has said that she sympathises with the protests in France. (https://www.nytimes.com/2022/02/09/world/canada/france-anti-vaccine-convoy.html)

Read more:
How the protests are spreading in Europe:
https://www.dw.com/en/canadas-trucker-protest-sparks-copycat-action-in-france/av-60754469