Last month, Israel began administering the fourth Covid vaccine dose for the most vulnerable people, including senior citizens. It became one of the first countries to roll out the fourth dose for its citizens. This was in response to the rise in cases of the Omicron variant around the world.

But within less than a month of the rollout, scientists in Israel are not sure about the vaccine's effectiveness against the most dominant variant of the virus.

The rollout of the fourth dose began at Israel’s Sheba Medical Center on Dec 31, and the first recipients were heart and lung transplant patients. (https://www.nbcnews.com/news/world/israel-administering-4th-covid-vaccine-dose-omicron-surges-rcna10515) A new study conducted at the same Center now says that the fourth vaccine did not show significant antibody increase in the people who were given the fourth dose.

According to the study, 154 health workers at the Center received their fourth Pfizer shot two weeks ago and while another 120 participants received a fourth vaccination with Moderna. All had received a third BioNTech-Pfizer booster. They were matched with a control group of around 6,000 health workers who had gotten their third dose and were tracked closely since the vaccination campaign began. (https://www.dw.com/en/coronavirus-digest-fourth-jab-not-enough-to-fight-omicron-study-shows/a-60454680)

It was seen that the third dose resulted in “much higher antibodies, neutralization and the antibodies were not just higher in quantity but also in quality.” Lead researcher Prof Gili Regev-Yochay stated this in a press briefing on Monday. The study also claims that the same percentage of hospital workers who received the fourth dose caught the virus as those who didn’t get the fourth booster. (https://healthpolicy-watch.news/israel-fourth-covid-booster-ineffective/)

According to the hospital, this was the first trial anywhere in the world that studied the fourth vaccine. The fourth vaccine was not ineffective as Prof Gili Regev-Yochay says that it provided “partial defense” against the virus. The researchers for now, are saying that these are “very preliminary results.” 

In the meantime, the country has been seeing a surge in Omicron cases.

Read more:

Israeli Hospital: 4th Vaccination Does Not Prevent Spread of Omicron
https://www.voanews.com/a/israeli-hospital-4th-vaccination-does-not-prevent-spread-of-omicron-/6401247.html

The latest from Israel on vaccinations and the omicron surge:
https://www.npr.org/2022/01/16/1073459211/the-latest-from-israel-on-vaccinations-and-the-omicron-surge