In the narrow sense, this is the committee's effort to obtain emails between Trump and attorney John Eastman. Eastman has claimed those documents are protected by attorney-client privilege, but the committee counters that they are subject to what's called the "crime-fraud exception" -- meaning the communications relate to commission of a crime or fraud.

So the stakes here are really whether or not the committee gets a set of emails, which could prove important evidence of the intent behind Eastman and Trump's efforts to steal the election.

More broadly, the committee's brief is a powerful political statement and, in my view, a call to action by the Department of Justice. The audience here is not just the judge, but also the DOJ and the American public. The brief reads like a prosecution memo. It's the committee saying, essentially, we believe there's a case to be made against Trump, and here's how we'd do it. Of course, the ultimate decision whether to charge Trump (or anybody) rests entirely with DOJ, not Congress.

Cillizza: If the committee wins its case, what's the practical effect?

Honig: First, they'll get the emails between Eastman and Trump. And if the judge rules on the basis of the crime-fraud exception, we'll have a formal finding by a federal judge that there's at least a foundation of evidence on which to conclude that Trump committed a crime. That does not ensure Trump will be prosecuted, but it will further amp up the pressure on DOJ to take action.

Cillizza: What factors is the DOJ considering when they look at the 1/6 committee's final product?

Honig: First of all, normally DOJ doesn't wait for or depend on Congress to gather facts. To the contrary, if DOJ is investigating a particular person or a topic, it will ask Congress to stand down and allow DOJ to proceed first; as a prosecutor, you never want some other entity questioning or potentially immunizing your witnesses or your targets.

Read more
https://edition.cnn.com/2022/03/07/politics/donald-trump-january-6-committee-legal/index.html