By Niraj Sharma

Zee’s Subhash Chandra is aiming to get re-elected to the upper house as a BJP-backed independent candidate.

This time, he is contesting from Rajasthan instead of his home state of Haryana from where he was elected in 2016.

In Rajasthan, Chandra, who’s known for his calculative skills be it in real-world politics or corporate political games, has managed to garner the support of Hanuman Beniwal-led Rashtriya Loktantrik Party (RLP) which is an ally of the Ashok Gehlot government.

The number game

The Ashok Gehlot government has 125 MLAs in the 200-member state assembly of Rajasthan. This includes 108 MLAs from Congress, three MLAs from RLP, 13 independents and one from Rashtriya Lok Dal.

BJP’s 71 MLAs sit on opposition benches while Bharatiya Tribal Party and CPI(M) have two MLAs each.

The Congress with its 108 MLAs in the 200-member state assembly is set to win two seats.

The three Congress candidates from Rajasthan are Mukul Wasnik, Randeep Surjewala and Pramod Tiwari.

After winning the two spots, Congress will have 26 surplus votes, 15 short of the required 41 to win the third seat.

However, Congress leaders claim the support of 126 MLAs, including 108 from the party itself. The party needs 123 MLAs to win three seats.

The BJP has 71 MLAs in the state Assembly, enough to get one seat in Rajya Sabha this time. Ghanshyam Tiwari is the party’s candidate for the RS polls.

After that, it will be left with 30 surplus votes. Thus, 30 surplus votes of BJP and three of RLP (total 33) are with independent candidate Subhash Chandra. He is short of eight MLAs to win the seat.

The inevitable horse-trading

Both BJP and Congress have resorted to resort politics which is perceived as a lack of trust in their MLAs.

Nearly 60 MLAs of the BJP had reached a resort on the outskirts of Jaipur in Jamdoli on Monday.

Read the full story here:- https://www.newsdrum.in/analysis/rs-polls-revealed-subhash-chandras-game-plan-for-re-election-to-rajya-sabha-41432.html