Arsenal finished 5th and missed out on Champions League football last season when qualification seemed all but certain. However, Arteta’s decision to build a young and small squad ultimately backfired, with injuries to key players Tomiyasu, Tierney and Partey derailing Arsenal’s campaign at the end of the season. Hence, Mikel Arteta will step up his transfer plans and look to bring more quality over the summer. 


One of the players looked at very keenly is Manchester City’s Oleksandr Zinchenko. The City midfielder who Arteta has worked with in the past could be an incredible signing for Arsenal. A midfielder by trade, Zinchenko is incredibly versatile and can fill in at left back when necessary - a position he features primarily when playing for Manchester City. Zinchenko is looking to leave City because of a lack of playing time and Arsenal is one of the destinations reported for him. Here’s why Mikel Arteta should be keen to bring him on board:


Versatility

If Mikel Arteta wants to keep a small squad, he will have to do so by signing versatile players. And none other than Zinchenko would fit that bill perfectly. Zinchenko could substitute at left back for injury prone Kieran Tierney, which would also allow Arsenal to send young fullback Nuno Tavares on loan to aid his development. 


While Arteta sees Zinchenko primarily as a midfielder, the Ukrainian has been solid at left back for Manchester City’s title winning campaigns. Zinchenko not only offers flexibility in positions but also the role he performs within them. While fullback Kieran Tierney likes to overlap wingers and deliver crosses, Zinchenko underlaps - drifting infield to help City overload the second phase and add more numbers to the midfield. This could let Arteta make more tactical plans for different opponents and situations. 


Fits Arteta’s Playing Style

Mikel Arteta has talked a lot about wanting technical players who can make a difference. Zinchenko is one of the players that fits the bill. Even at fullback, the midfielder has been very vital to Manchester City’s buildup, with his stats reflecting the same.