The game of football has been marred by several sad moments in the history so far. Majority of these moments have had a sort of never ending negative impact in the mind of the lovers of the game more often. Amongst numerous forgettable moments in football history one occurred back in 1958 which still sends a shiver down the spine of the entire football world without a doubt. 
We're talking about the Munich air disaster wherein Flight 609 of the British European Airways crashed even before it could take off successfully. On board were the players of one of the most famous football clubs back then, Manchester United. The incident caused the death of around 21 of the 44 people in total dead on the spot. 7 of these 21 deaths were of active Manchester United Players. 
The team which was undoubtedly one of the most dominant ones on the pitch was being tipped to be the favourites to lift the European Cup that year.However as fate would have it, the team and their fans' hopes were all  demolished by this one tragic incident. 
On February 6th, 1958 ,the team was on its way back from Yugoslavia after beating the Red Star Belgrade to proceed into the semi finals of the tournament. Their flight had halted its journey midway and stopped at the Munich-Riem Airport to refuel. A non stop flight from Belgrade to Manchester back during those days was beyond the capacities of majority of the flights. 
Pilots James Thanes and Kenneth Rayment tried to take off twice after refuelling but failed on each of the two ocassions, the reason being boost surging in the left engine. The pilots were then realised the take off schedule was supposedly going to end in and if the third take off attempt was unsuccessful, then the players and their staffs on board would have to be grounded then and there itself.
Captain Thanes preferred going for a third take off attempt instead of planning for an overnight stay at Munich. This decision possibly caused the sudden turn of events as the third take off attempt proved to be fatal for them. 
