Arsenal’s perfect record was demolished by Manchester United in comprehensive fashion on Sunday as the Gunners fell 3-1 at Old Trafford. Although they retained their position at the top of the table, the defeat raised doubts over the true level of Mikel Arteta’s side.
Four of the opening five wins of Arsenal’s run came against sides that are currently in the bottom half of the table. The fifth was against an impressive but still newly promoted Fulham side. The performances have been promising but there are a lot of caveats.
Even the most optimistic Gunners fans know that this is not a side that will challenge Manchester City or Liverpool for the title. Their aim is to make the top four. To do that they need to finish above at least two of Chelsea, Manchester United, and their arch-rivals Spurs.
For the Emirates faithful, bringing back St. Totteringham’s day might be the most important target - for pride as well as prize. Spurs have had a fast start of their own and are just one point behind Arsenal. Their opponents have also largely been lower half opposition but they did manage to knick a point off Chelsea.
Antonio Conte’s side stole Champions League football from Arsenal last year and they may just do it again. Both sides have made clever transfers but Spurs seem to have addressed the shortcomings of their side better, adding depth and have a better injury record in general.
Tottenham also have more than one reliable source of goals. Son has started slowly but it is only a matter of time that he finds his shooting boots. Kane remains one of the best strikers on the continent and they now have able backups to both in Richarlison and Kulusevski. Jesus has been on a hot streak but his scoring record says that it might be just that, a streak. Martinelli, Odegaard and Saka are all excellent players but 12 is the highest number of goals any of them have scored in a season.
Additionally, Spurs and Conte’s experience may well be the deciding factor in the fight between the two North London rivals.
