Better information leads to better decisions – this is the idea behind a regulatory device known as “mandated disclosure.” Mandated disclosures are all around you, from calorie counts on fast food restaurant menus to conversations with doctors around informed consent.

But the biggest experiment yet in mandated disclosure may be an expected U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission proposal to extend these ideas to climate impacts facing U.S.-listed companies. Climate disclosure rules would require publicly traded companies to release information to investors about their emissions and how they are managing risks related to climate change and future climate regulations.

While it is easy to spot climate change-related risks facing companies like ExxonMobil that produces and sells fossil fuels that contribute to global warming, hidden vulnerabilities exist for businesses across the U.S. economy.

Largely in response to investors clamoring for more information about climate risks, as well as pressure from green groups that believe disclosure will drive climate-conscious investing, SEC Chair Gary Gensler announced in 2021 that the commission would use its statutory authority to require climate-related disclosures.

The SEC now plans to consider proposals for climate-risk disclosure rules at its March 21, 2022, meeting.

As law scholars, we work on legal issues involving businesses and regulation. Here’s what you need to know about climate disclosures and some of the challenges the SEC faces in adopting them.

What investors want to know

Investor pressure for better information about climate impacts comes from two directions.

First, some investors want to avoid companies that will be affected by climate change. The company’s products may be regulated in the future because of their impact on the climate, or its supply chains may get more expensive over time. Investors want to know which businesses will be able to adapt and preserve profitability.

Read full story at The Conversation:
https://theconversation.com/sec-will-consider-climate-disclosure-rules-for-us-companies-on-march-21-its-already-facing-threats-of-lawsuits-178304

Image Courtesy:
https://www.gettyimages.com/detail/photo/oil-refinery-royalty-free-image/108806525?adppopup=true