The trophy cabinet at Boca Juniors Football School India has quite a few recent additions. The academy is basking in glory after emerging champions in three leagues. And behind their stupendous showing is an unassuming Goan, Derryl D'Souza.
Having joined as Technical Director in April 2020, D'Souza has been instrumental in laying the groundwork for the success of the Boca Juniors.
Having spent two seasons with the academy, the efforts are there to see. This season, Boca Juniors have emerged champions in the U14 category, defending the club’s title with back-to-back victories, and U-8 Karnataka State Football (KSFA) league as well as in the U-10 Double Pass Development League (DPDL). 
The cherry on the cake was when Derryl's three players appeared as probables at the U-17 India camp held in Goa.
“The players had a valuable experience and learning, which will definitely assist them to propel higher in their game,” said Derryl.
With his vast coaching experience, D'Souza is worth his weight in gold. He is the only men’s coach from India to complete the ‘Project Future Coach’ run by Asian Football Confederation (AFC) during 2009-2012.
D’Souza is determined to raise the bar for development football. With an AFC A Licence since 2015, he has wide experience in grassroots, youth and professional football over a decade. Derryl was Technical Director for Goa Football Development Council for 8 years and has developed many youth players for top teams.
He has also been an All India Football Federation (AIFF) as a Coach Educator since 2014.
As Technical Director at Boca Juniors FS India, D'Souza handles the KSFA League Division teams, Residential Academy, International Football Excellence programme (Youth) and Boca Juniors Football academies.
His role with the team is to plan and devise the training curriculum structure for the overall project.
With an emphasis on coach education, D'Souza also mentors coaches to run the entire program efficiently.
“The right player development is crucial -- making understand our young players, what they are doing and why they are doing it during the training sessions,” said D’Souza.