Himachal Pradesh is a place representing its snow clad mountains, tough terrains and climatic conditions.Himachal is a place of attraction for tourists who visit here from various states and countries to explore the beauty of the region. One of such destination which bring you thousands of miles away from your familiar settings to a place of soft brown pastures and snow-white mountain peaks is a small village situated in the Lauhal district of Himachal, Komic- which literally means “eye of a snow cock”.The village (Komic) is highest motorable village in the world situated at an height of 4587 meters or 15027 feet above sea level. This little hamlet with total population of approx 130 people looks like a big bowl and exhibits a traditional Himalayan architecture with a division into two parts, with small and adjacent houses in one part, and slightly bigger houses in the other part. Apart from this, the interesting thing is that the temperature here remains between 7 to 9 degrees even during extreme summers like June. One of the most attractive things of this village is its famous Buddhist Monastery situated at the entrance and is believed to be 500 years old and is popular for the ‘Maitreya Buddha’ or ‘Future Buddha’ believed to be bodhisattva(with essence of perfect knowledge)who will appear on earth in the future to teach people of earth pure Dharma. A prayer meeting is held twice a day in the monastery and has a rule that women are not allowed to enter during the prayers. For the people of Komic their village is their world. This cold desert hosts many festivals throughout the year with lamas performing Chham dance(a dance associated with Tibetan Buddhism) and another is mask dance(a sacred dance performed during the Drametse festival in honour of Padmasambhava, a Buddhist guru). This region remains off from the suburbs for 6 months due to heavy snowfall. The residents of this coveted village live a harsh life due to the climatic conditions. The Silhouette of snow clad mountains with vibrant blue sky makes this small hamlet undisputable for being tagged as the world's highest village connected with a road