Former New York mayor Bill de Blasio announced on Friday that he was running for Congress in a newly drawn district that includes parts of Manhattan and his home borough of Brooklyn. A few hours later he got some tough competition. 

Main candidates include none other than New York Rep. Mondaire Jones, who currently represents the 17th Congressional District in Rockland and Westchester counties, he declared that he was city-bound for a run in the new 10th District, prepping a clash with de Blasio and state Assemblywoman Yuh-Line Niou, who declared her candidacy earlier.

Jones who is a member of the LGBTQIA+ Community said "This is the birthplace of the LGBTQ+ rights movement. Since long before the Stonewall Uprising, queer people of colour have sought refuge within its borders."

Jones, who was first elected in 2020, condemned the new congressional map, saying on Twitter that it was "the result of partisan politics -- drawn by an out-of-state, Republican court appointee."

You too are a fierce competition." We know why it is so important to have representation. For many of my constituents, this is the first time they have ever had a representative who can speak to them in the language we speak," she said. She made her speech in Chinatown and this ensures her winning possibility.

 Blasio had previously considered a run for governor before agreeing against it. But with the jumbling of New York's redistricting process, which has seen one congressional map drawn by state Democratic lawmakers struck down by New York's highest court and a new one, drawn by a court-appointed "special master," now ratified, de Blasio saw his opportunity.
De Blasio first made his announcement during an appearance Friday on MSNBC. The candidate, whose failed bid for the 2020 Democratic presidential nomination hurt his standing at home, said his time as mayor gave him a unique insight into the city's troubles.
"Polls show people are hurting, they need help, they need help fast, they need leaders that can get them to help now," de Blasio said. "I know how to do it from years of serving the people of this city."

Source: News Channel Nebraska