Marriage is a problematic institution. It is extremely discriminatory and unfavourable to one of the genders if the marriage is between heterosexuals. No way I am taking sides or am against it. Adopting a functional approach of sociology, I believe (admitting it in all knaivity) that there must be a function of this institution that it still exists. As this approach believes that anything which no longer serves a purpose or function to the society, it is discarded. 
First, traditionally women has to leave their homes, parents and family to move into the husband's house. One can only imagine how problematic it is to form new relations, forge fresh relationships, and adjust with the new expectations of the these new relationships. One does not have the liberty of newbie to commit errors or fall short of the high bars of the new family and society. One mistake and the woman, including her side of the family is blamed of fit for nothing. 
Second, in many areas of the country the wedding is done, still by the age they turn 18. Their engagement is fixed way before adolscents. And the moment they are of reproductive age, the pressure from in-laws to send the girl. The reasons given are- there is household to be looked after, heir to be produced, be at the service of heir in-laws and a husband to be satisfied. These are only jobs of the woman's existence. 
Then there comes the brunt of alcoholism in the form of domestic violence as its the leading cause of it. There is dowry deaths, forced traumatic abortions, sexual and emotional harassment by in-laws. 
During pregnancy, there is the pressure to bear a male child, accessibility to Healthcare services which sees a huge rural urban divide in India, post partum disorders, female laborers carrying bricks on their heads to double storyed buildings because they are daily wage workers and for them food is from hand to mouth.
These were very few of zillion of other grave issues of women of thus country which are on the contours of caste, class, religion and region embedded in being married off and severe when earlier. 