Canberra is one of Australia’s best-kept secrets. Much more than just Australia’s capital, we’re welcoming to students, businesses, professionals and families. A progressive, vibrant and beautiful place to live.

It’s Canberra’s contrasts that make it such a great place to call home. While we are known as the seat of government, we are far from a formal city. We have an easy lifestyle and strong community vibe. And it’s a beautiful place to explore.

It welcome people from across Australia and all around the world. More than 26% of Canberrans are from overseas. One in four speaks a language other than English.

This is a city where everyone belongs and can participate. More than 90% agree it’s good for society to have different cultures. We’re the only Australian state or territory to be a refugee welcome zone. We’re part of the Welcoming Cities Network.

But we don’t just welcome people from other cultures — we celebrate with them. Canberrans enjoy the sights, sounds and tastes of our multicultural city. The National Multicultural Festival is an annual highlight. And our beautiful embassies and high commissions are part of what makes this such an interesting place to live.

Canberra brims with culture and art. We host some of the country’s top cultural attractions. This includes Australia’s National Gallery and National Museum, and many more. The local art scene is full and rich too. It’s bustling with artists, actors, musicians and writers. They work beside our thought leaders, academics and creatives.

A new generation of Canberrans drives new precincts across the city. NewActon‘s award-winning modern buildings sit beside heritage-listed splendour. There’s a wildlife lodge at the National Zoo and Aquarium. You can stay overnight with the animals right outside your room.

Restaurants, cafes, bars, wineries and breweries serve produce from Canberra and the region. Our food and wine industries compete with the best in the world.

Canberra’s Design Festival celebrates the fact that design, creativity and originality are at our city’s core. That’s evident from our very beginnings. This is a designed and hand-picked capital city.