Juventus claimed city bragging rights with a hard-fought win over Torino. One goal was enough to decide the derby, scored by Dušan Vlahović.
CAGEY OPENING
The 155th Derby della Mole in Serie A started with both sides taking careful measure of each other. The match was mainly played in midfield with neither defence put under any serious pressure. The first shot came on 14 minutes when Aleksej Mirančuk drove an effort from the edge of the area, which caused no concern to Wojciech Szczęsny.
CLOSE TO THE BREAKTHROUGH
With 33 minutes played, Juve had their first effort on goal. Dušan Vlahović fired in a shot from a tight angle which was saved by Vanja Milinković-Savić.
The two Serbs went face to face again a minute later, when Juan Cuadrado found Moise Kean, who slipped the pass onto Vlahović, denied a second time by his international teammate in the Granata goal. On the rebound, Manuel Locatelli tried his luck, again Milinković-Savić stood tall.
PUSHING ON
The second half started following the same script, Milinković-Savić standing between Juve and the first goal.
Five minutes into the second half, the keeper lept to keep out Locatelli. On 62' the Toro keeper was left stranded as a Kostić cross found Kean inside the area but the striker placed his shot wide of target.
Either side of Kean's chance, the Granata threatened. First Danilo deflected a cross towards his own goal which Szczęsny had to be alert to, then Mirančuk lofted the ball over the bar from a dangerous position.
THE DECIDER
It was an all-Serbian combination that led to the breakthrough. Again Milinković-Savić produced another full-stretch save to tip Vlahović's header wide after an excellent delivery from Kostić.
From the resulting corner, however, the Bianconeri found the finishing touch. Danilo met the cross played into the area. His header bounced into the path of Vlahović, lurking at the far post, who tapped the ball into the unguarded goal.
The celebration released all the tension that had been built up over the last week as the players flocked together. A compact team performance saw the Bianconeri collect three massive points. Morale restored.