Chelsea face one of the most significant transfer windows in their recent history this summer. Not only will they need to sign defensive reinforcements to replace Antonio Rudiger and Andreas Christensen, but it will be the first in 19 years without Roman Abramovich at the helm.

New owner Todd Boehly must be prepared for a rebuild of the Blues’ squad if they’re to close the gap between themselves, Manchester City and Liverpool. And one area manager Thomas Tuchel is believed to want to add quality to is in attack.

The club have signed a plethora of forward players in recent seasons but the likes of Hakim Ziyech, Christian Pulisic and Timo Werner have struggled for form and consistency. As a result a number of the Blues' stars are rumoured to be on their way out of Stamford Bridge, and Paris Saint-Germain winger Neymar has been touted as a potential replacement.

After PSG tied Kylian Mbappe down to a new three-year deal it had been suggested that the Ligue 1 champions may wish to move in a new direction, one which focuses on young French talent - a mould that 30-year-old Neymar doesn’t fit, prompting speculation that the Brazilian winger could leave the Parc des Princes this summer.

However, Neymar has rubbished suggestions that he could be on his way out of the French capital. Asked if he will stay with PSG and target Champions League success next season, he told Canal Football Club: “It has to be with Paris. I have a contract with PSG, so there are no other possible choices. Yes it will be with Paris Saint-Germain.”

Neymar endured an injury-hit campaign making just 22 Ligue 1 appearances last season. However, since he joined PSG from Barcelona in the summer of 2017 the Brazilian has featured in 144 games, scoring a century of goals and racking up 60 assists.

He is under contract with the French champions until June 2025, but it remains to be seen if the reported change in direction/philosophy will lead to him exiting the club. It’s believed that PSG would demand around €90million (£76.6m) for his services.