Since Covid 19 the public have been more concerned about the potential disease threats. And the newest addition to the list is tomato fly and it had infected over 100 children in India as per the reports from The Lancet. 
The first tomato flu disease was detected in the Kollam district of Kerala, India on May 6th, 2022. 
As per The Lancer, the disease is considered as non life threatening and it gets resolved by its own within time. 
The symptoms of the disease are as follows: 
The primary symptoms that's observed among infected children are those of chikungunya which is a mosquito-borne illness that includes high fever, rashes and intense pain in joints. 
Other symptoms are fatigue, nausea, vomiting, diarrhea, fever, dehydration, swelling of joints, body aches and common flu like symptoms that relates to dengue, which is another disease that's spread by mosquitoes. 
Hannah Newman, MPH, director of infection prevention at Lenox Hill Hospital in New York told Healthline that, “Transmission is likely to be through close contact". 
“The virus has been named tomato flu on the basis of the red, painful blisters it causes that can mimic the look and size of a tomato,” Newman explained. 
As the disease is non life threatening, it can be uncomfortable and it give rashes, fevers and joint pain. 
Transmitted via close contact and surfaces 
Glatter said that, “It’s also believed to spread by contact with an infected person’s clothing, bedding, towels, sheets, toys, books or other nonporous surfaces, similar to Monkeypox." 
Glatter added that tomato flu could be an after effect of hand foot and mouth disease, as there is no evidence of the disease being spread as per Lancet report. 
Chikungunya and dengue are bith endemuc to the region and the elders and younger children are mlre prone to tomato virus. 
“Because their immune systems may not be as robust after recovering from these mosquito-borne viruses,” he said. 
Glatter confirms that there is no vaccine or any antiviral medication that's available to treat this disease. But there are methods to relieve down the symptoms. 
Sources - Healthline 
