It took former cleaner Thangal Koya, 51, two days on a ship to travel 459 km southeast across the Arabian Sea from the island of Agatti in the Lakshadweep archipelago to find medical treatment in a private hospital in Ernakulam, Kerala.


For a week, Koya and his wife Fathima, stayed at the hospital, spending Rs 70,000 on his liver disease. They were keen to return home to their tropical home on their remote 7.6-km-long sliver of an island. But they had to stay in Ernakulam and Kozhikode in Kerala for an extra month because tickets for the ship home were not available. On 26 June, they finally sailed for home. 


On 18 June, when Article 14 met them, the couple, then in Kozhikode, were visibly tired, their faces drawn. They were struggling with money and only wanted, they said, to go home “as early as possible”. On 4 July, speaking from Lakshadweep, Koya said he had to borrow from relatives and friends “thousands of rupees” more than what he budgeted for the journey to hospital.


Koya’s life has been doubly affected by two of many sweeping, widely criticised changes made by the unelected Lakshadweep administration of administrator Praful Khoda Patel, 65, a Gujarati and confidant of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, since he took charge in December 2020.  Patel was the first politician to be appointed the union territory’s administrator—a post traditionally handled by experienced bureaucrats.


First, Koya was fired from his Rs 9,800-per-month job a year ago, one of more than 500 locals whose employment with the union territory government was terminated, as part of Patel’s “administrative reforms”. Second, he was stranded because the ships running between Lakshadweep and the mainland were down from seven to two, with seats down from 2,300 to 650, a fall of nearly 3/4th (72%), and cargo haulage down from 850 tonnes to less than half to 350 tonnes. 

Read More - https://article-14.com/post/hundreds-are-stranded-as-modi-aide-governing-lakshadweep-withdraws-ships-to-indian-mainland-62d4e8f7492ab