The Muslim Brotherhood (MB) is a radical/extremist movement with an economic structure which is international in character. MB operates in a very covert manner, which contributes to its transnational nature. Considering that it is critical to the brotherhood’s continued survival, its financial and economic structure is one of the organisation’s most tightly guarded secrets. The movement’s ability to survive and fully execute its ideas and ambitions will be severely hampered if it does not have access to its extensive financial infrastructure. The Muslim Brotherhood did not participate in economic operations at random but rather structured and theorised a framework based on the grounds of being “legal” in nature. As a result, they were able to add an economic component to their ideology. 

From the movement’s inception in Egypt, its founders and leaders worked to establish a global financial infrastructure. From the beginning, the economic structure was founded on the collection of membership taxes and the collection of Zakat (alms), as mandated by Islamic law. As the movement evolved and spread, the same Da’wa infrastructure was created and became a significant source of money for the organisation. In addition, every mosque that was built acted as a collecting centre for Zakat money, every Islamic centre served as a collection centre, and every merchant contributed to the charitable fund. 

Following its repression by police and security forces in the 1950s, the Muslim Brotherhood made entry into numerous Arab nations, notably those in the Gulf region. MB also homemade its way into Europe and established regulatory agencies that initially coordinated worship for Muslim communities, such as the Munich Mosque, before spreading over the continent. However, it was only later that the group began to emerge into the public arena, particularly in European nations, during the early 1990s, when a number of Islamic groups were created with political goals that went beyond their stated cultural and social responsibilities. Some of them began pursuing purely business interests, notably in what is known as Halal trading, with the consequence that the revenues of the local group affiliates skyrocketed as a result.
To be continued...
