Introduction : The emergence of Communist China continues……

So what is Han China? Han China is that modern civilization which can be defined culturally and ethno-geographically as Confucian- based China, inhabited by ethnic Chinese people, who are generally referred to as ‘Han Chinese’. It is both ethnic and cultural, in as much as being ‘Chinese’ is a state of mind for the Han people. It implies an acceptance of the teachings of the ancient Confucian texts, the bureaucratic system of government and of an overall Chinese imperial authority. It equally implies a consciousness of 5,000 years of continuous Chinese history, and a deep-rooted belief that Chinese culture is vastly superior to any and all others on earth. It thus equally means a disdain and contempt for all other cultures, with most other people being broadly classified as ‘barbarians’, on par with animals. For example, the Europeans and Americans who first arrived by sea on China’s  east  coast,  notably  at  Shanghai,  were  known  as  yang  ren  or ‘Ocean  People’,  also  used  for  foreigners  generally.  The  Chinese  were astonished to learn that they had surnames, and understood the family distinctions of father, wife, brother, sister, etc: in short, that they did not live like a herd of animals.

The PRC reached its present limits when it successfully invaded and occupied Tibet in 1950, completing its occupation in 1951. In so doing it reached the maximum expansion that it appeared to immediately  want,  having already  occupied Eastern Turkestan (Xinjiang5, or the Xinjiang Uyghur Autonomous Region), Inner Mongolia, and Manchuria earlier. This expansion appeared to be in order to secure an outer buffer zone for its Han heartland, a geo- strategic requirement which it camouflaged as an irredentist claim for its ‘historical  boundaries’.  These,  in  fact,  had been  achieved  only  by non-Han invaders who had conquered China, first by the Mongols (1280-13h8 CE) and later, by the Manchus (1h44-1911 CE).

To be continued…………