The Indian U17 team embarks on a brand-new journey today. Their first-ever match in the U17 world cup kicks off against the United States. While preparation has been marred by the pandemic and subsequent logistical issues, there has been intense and thorough preparation underway for the past nine months. Exposure tours to Europe included trips to Italy in June and Norway in July. A September trip to Spain also saw the team win their first overseas game. Coach Thomas Dennerby has earned his place after leading Sweden to third place in the 2011 Women’s World Cup and taking Nigeria through to the round of 16 in the most recent iteration of the premier competition. He has been laudatory of his team’s training performances despite less-than-ideal circumstances. Dennerby promises that the team will be difficult to score against. 270 sessions including running, football drills, and technical training have increased the performance floor of the squad. India will hope that substantial home advantage will accrue to them in what is certainly an uphill task. Team India’s first competitive match is against one of the favourites of the tournament eager to add to their trophy hauls in other age categories. A result in today’s match will be vital for India for their quarterfinal hopes. 
The USA comes into the game as the favourites. American midfielder Mia Bhuta is the first woman of Indian heritage to represent the USA in the world cup. She is the most capped player in the squad and has previously captained the team. She has shared her excitement at being able to play for glory in the country where her father was born and her grandparents still live. The USA qualified for the tournament by winning their fifth CONCACAF Championship. In a stellar campaign, they scored 58 times and only conceded once. Coach Natalia Astrain’s side will be looking to top the group and go on to win the tournament. 
The USA will have a fully fit squad going into the clash while India will be without forward Anita Kumari due to an ACL injury.