Riddled with corruption charges, surviving a potential FIFA ban and earning a successive qualification for Asian Cup scheduled next year, the Indian football team has seen it all in the past few days.

The much-awaited qualification came even before they were slated to play their final qualifying game tonight against Hong Kong in Kolkata. This happened as the Philippines fell to a 0-4 loss to Palestine in their final group stage encounter earlier today. 

With the win against Afghanistan, India had most likely ensured their qualification as it is placed at 3rd position in the points table among 2nd ranked teams and as per the rules, the five best 2nd ranked teams are to proceed to the championship main draw.

India at the Asian Cup:

India first appeared at the Asian Cup back in 1964, when most of the West Asian countries pulled out due to political reasons. The tournament had 4 teams, one from each zone. Israel emerged as the winner in the opening edition and India finished as the runner-up.

India, then appeared, next at the 1984 Asian Cup after 20 years but was dumped out of the Group Stage.

For the next run at the continental stage, India had to wait 27 years before star footballer Baichung Bhutia led India to another group stage disaster in 2011.

Another 8-year wait culminated when India qualified for the 2019 Asian Cup. A passionate Sunil Chhetri led India to their first win at Asian Cup after 55 years in the first clash against Thailand. India lost the final group game in the 89th minute to give a huge heartbreak to fans and crash out.

This will be the first time that the Blue Tigers have qualified back to back in the AFC Asian Cup.

Indian captain Sunil Chhetri is going to lead the campaign once again next year. With the talks of his retirement doing rounds, he must be looking to leave no stone unturned to make India enter the history books and adorn his extraordinary professional career by winning a big title for his country.

Can India better its 2019 performance and finally make a mark on the international stage?