The 95-year-old monarch's diagnosis comes after Prince Charles and Camilla, Duchess of Cornwall also tested positive for coronavirus.

The monarch's diagnosis comes after her son, Prince Charles, and his wife, Camilla, Duchess of Cornwall also tested positive for coronavirus.

"Buckingham Palace confirm that The Queen has today tested positive for Covid," a short statement released on Sunday morning read. "Her Majesty is experiencing mild cold-like symptoms but expects to continue light duties at Windsor over the coming week."

"She will continue to receive medical attention and will follow all the appropriate guidelines," the statement concluded.

The Queen, who is widely reported to be fully vaccinated, is not alone in having tested positive for the coronavirus as a number of Royal Household members based at the castle have also done so, PEOPLE understands.

The Queen, 95, last met with Charles, 73, on Feb. 8, two days before he received his diagnosis. The royal heir was at Windsor Castle, where the Queen is currently living, to hand out investiture honors.

Charles, who isolated after his diagnosis on Feb. 10, also tested positive for the viral disease at the onset of the pandemic in March 2020.

Following Charles' COVID-19 diagnosis, a royal source confirmed to PEOPLE that the Queen was being monitored but was not displaying any symptoms.

Four days after Charles' diagnosis, his wife Camilla, 74, tested positive for COVID. Both Charles and Camilla are triple vaccinated.

Soon after the news about the Queen emerged, British Prime Minister Boris Johnson led the chorus of wellwishers hoping that she has a quick recovery from COVID, tweeting that he looked forward to her "rapid return to vibrant good health."

In a short statement, a spokesman at Clarence House said, "Her Royal Highness The Duchess of Cornwall has tested positive for COVID-19 and is self-isolating. We continue to follow government guidelines."

Source- https://people.com/royals/queen-elizabeth-tests-positive-for-covid-19/?amp=true