On August 10th, BLACKPINK released their first set of teaser photos, marking their return after two years of hiatus. Four BLACKPINK members appeared with unique auras and equally stunning visuals. However, Lisa still became the center of attention in these photos. 

BLACKPINK’s youngest member changed up her appearance, putting to rest her Japanese-styled hair. Her hair color is widely guessed to be burgundy, stirring up excitement among fans, wanting to admire her visuals in its entirety. Lisa’s image is once again becoming viral in the community. 
Previously, Jennie stood out in the group’s comeback with “Kill This Love”. The female idol’s image often is tied to her brunette looks. Yet, in her teaser photo, the idol took a drastic change and dyed her hair platinum blonde, creating a western feel to her image. However, as it turned out, this appeared to only be a wig and BLINKs were “fooled”. 
Jennie also made a wide impact in her teasers for “Lovesick Girls” for her thin bangs and beret hat. Her pink hair in “Ice Cream” comeback is no less viral on the Internet. 
BLACKPINK’s seductive looks and gorgeous visuals once again left fans out of breath in their music video “How You Like That”. Each member had their moments: Jennie set precedent for the bang-dying trend, Rosé caught attention for her majestic ashy green hair. However, Jisoo was the one who really stood out in this comeback. 
BLACKPINK’s oldest member still exuded a powerful aura while wearing a simple dark hair color in a twintail. In this era, “concept Jisoo” became the most looked-up keyword and set up a trend followed by many people. 
Recently, BLACKPINK released their graphic music video for “Ready for Love” and their AI characters soon created major discussions. In the heated debates, netizens highly regarded the created look for AI Rosé who owns a gorgeous and princess-like image. 
In each comeback, BLACKPINK brings new and pleasant surprises to the table. That is why fans are sitting at the edge of their seats awaiting this grand comeback.