Sanjay Raut, a Shiv Sena member who had previously been summoned for questioning in a money-laundering case, was searched for on Sunday and questioned by Enforcement Directorate (ED) agents at his Mumbai home. After he ignored a previous summons and gave the reason that Delhi's Parliament was in session, the Shiv Sena leader was finally called by the investigation agency on July 27.

When they arrived at Mr. Raut's home in Bandup, a suburb of Mumbai in the east, the investigation team and CISF personnel started conducting searches.

Mr. Raut, 60, is wanted for questioning by the Enforcement Directorate in relation to the renovation of a chawl in Mumbai and other transactions involving his wife and close friends. The Uddhav Thackeray supporter Mr. Raut has denied any wrongdoing and said that he is a target of political vendetta.

No scams are connected to me. Balasaheb Thackeray's oath, which I am taking in his honour, is my declaration. We were taught to fight by Balasaheb. For the Shiv Sena, I shall keep fighting "Shortly after investigatory agency representatives visited his residence, Mr. Raut tweeted.

The Sena leader faced criticism from the BJP for ignoring the summons. "If he is innocent, why does he fear the Enforcement Directorate? He has enough of time to do news conferences but not enough to attend the office of the investigating agency "BJP politician Ram Kadam said.

On July 1, the Rajya Sabha MP was questioned for almost 10 hours, during which time his statement was recorded in accordance with the Act's criminal provisions.

Varsha Raut, the wife of Mr. Raut, and two of his associates had their assets valued at around 11.15 crore rupees attached by the Enforcement Directorate in April as part of an investigation.

Pravin Raut arrested in a probe linked to a ₹ 1,034-crore alleged land scam related to the re-development of the Patra chawl in Goregaon area of Mumbai. Maharashtra Housing Area Development Authority (MHADA) Raut is currently in judicial custody.