More than 2 million refugees have crossed into Poland ever since Russian troops invaded the country four weeks ago, according to the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR). The Polish town of Przemyśl near the border with Ukraine has been welcoming up to 50,000 refugees every day and the country has so far spent nearly €1.6 billion to manage the influx of people.

UNHCR has acknowledged the whole-hearted support of the Polish authorities and civil society for those who were forced to migrate from Ukraine. Among the 2 million people who have entered Poland from Ukraine, some have moved on to other countries in the EU, although the majority are believed to be still in Poland. The reason: the country is allowing millions of refugees access to the labour market and to health and social benefits, including monthly child allowances of €110 ($121) per child.  For these benefits the refugees in Poland need PESEL, a national identity number, made available through multiple registration drives in border towns.

A law recently passed by the Polish parliament ensures refugees' access to the benefits; even new arrivals from Ukraine get €70 in welcome money and Polish citizens who host Ukrainians receive €9 a day for expenses from the government.

This is not the first time the country of 38 million people has accepted Ukrainian migrants. After Russia’s annexation of Crimea in 2014, the country had welcomed Ukrainians with open arms in solidarity as “colleagues and neighbours”.

But now with overwhelming numbers, parts of society may feel the pressure on limited resources of the social and healthcare systems in Poland. Work permits to refugees will put pressure on the local job market. Schools are also going to be overcrowded with children who can’t speak Polish. 

Political scientists fear the situation could also be used by populists to "spread hatred and resentment." The Polish government must keep this danger in mind while rehabilitating more refugees from Ukraine.

READ MORE:  

https://www.dw.com/en/polands-open-door-policy-helps-ukrainian-refugees-build-new-lives/a-61192590

https://www.france24.com/en/europe/20220320-some-50-000-ukrainian-refugees-arrive-daily-in-polish-border-town-of-przemysl

https://www.unhcr.org/news/press/2022/3/6234811a4/poland-welcomes-million-refugees-ukraine.html