A group of Afghans in the United States have filed three lawsuits in New York asking them not to give $ 3.5 billion of the Central Bank of Afghanistan reserves to the families of the September 11 victims.

They say the Taliban do not represent Afghanistan and that Afghans should not compensate for the Taliban's terrorist acts.

A New York court has upheld a claim by a number of families of 9/11 victims for the Taliban's role in the terrorist attack and ordered that compensation be paid from the US Federal Reserve's reserves in the United States.

The families' lawyers argued that the Taliban were at the head of the government and the Central Bank of Afghanistan, so that compensation should be paid in Afghan money.

According to the New York Times, the lawyers of Nasir Fayek, the acting head of Afghanistan's mission to the United Nations, wrote in their application to the court that they support compensation for the families of 9/11 victims, but this should not be paid for by the Afghan people.

"Compensation should not be paid from the pockets of the Afghan people who, morally and legally, had no role in the tragic events of 9/11 and no role in the Taliban's terrorist acts," the appeal said. They also argued that many Afghans helped the United States fight the Taliban and that the Afghan people were victims of Taliban rule.

At Aquarius 1400, Joe Biden signed an executive order paving the way for $ 3.5 billion of Afghanistan's $ 7 billion in frozen money to compensate survivors of the 9/11 attacks.

Under the law, the assets of independent states on American soil are protected from grievances and compensation, but under a U.S. congressional resolution, citizens of the United States can sue terrorist states for compensation.

According to the newspaper, what complicates the work of the government and the judiciary is that the Taliban have taken over the Afghan government by force and their rule has not been recognized by the world. According to him, the Taliban is still a terrorist group rather than the official government of Afghanistan.

To be continued