“I feel like I have a tumor growing inside me,” I once told my therapist, immediately feeling guilty about comparing my pain to what my grandmother went through.

It was only after I embraced my transness, that I acknowledged I had been sick – not because I’m transgender, but because I was in a system that made me ashamed of myself.

Yesterday, Florida Governor Ron DeSantis signed the ‘Don’t Say Gay’ bill into law, effectively attempting to erase any possible conversations about LGBTQI+ folks in classrooms.

The law states: “Classroom instruction by school personnel or third parties on sexual orientation or gender identity may not occur in kindergarten through grade 3 or in a manner that is not age appropriate or developmentally appropriate for students in accordance with state standards.”

At what point is it “age appropriate” to let children know that they have the right to be who they are and love who they love? What is the measure used to determine that it is “developmentally appropriate” to let children lead with love, and to not internalize toxic gender roles that translate into their own repression projected onto other students for living their truth?

If it wasn’t for the access to love and language that helped me reframe the way I understood myself as a gender-nonconforming trans person, I wouldn’t have survived the guilt of feeling like my living was a mistake.

Last year, NCERT attempted to create gender and trans-affirming places by educating school teachers and administrators. But the guide was taken down soon after immense backlash, and anti-trans complaints from the National Commission for ‘Protection’ of Child Rights.

My chest hollows itself into a void when I think about queer and trangender youth who’s access to language is attacked: How many of us die without having the words to find what we’ve known all along, but didn’t know how to express? How many of us die having internalized the normalization of erasing ourselves?

LGBTQI+ youth know who they are, and adults need to trust in them, rather than reproducing the violence of a cisgender-heteronormative binary for political clout.