Centre back- Jules Kounde  
Kounde, like Araujo, is a future prodigy, and both are future Barcelona defenders with the potential to become one of the greatest defenders in football. At the age of 20, he was a vital defender for Sevilla, forming a potent defence. The player has now joined Barcelona and will make a name for himself at the club and in Europe through his performance.
He is a young defender with a lot of experience who can play right back and can develop into a complete defender under Xavi's tutelage.
Left-back- Alphonso Davies
Davies, one of the best left-backs in football, is a rare left-back who can dominate both offensively and defensively, thanks to his explosive pace and dribbling skills, which make him a distinct player in Bayern. At the age of 19, he won the Champions League and established himself as one of Europe's best left-backs.
He also played a key role in Canada qualifying for the World Cup for the first time in their history. The 21-year-old has already established himself as one of the best players in football.
 
 
Midfielder- Pedri
Pedri is believed to be a promising young talent, and he hasn't disappointed since making his debut. Barcelona signed Pedri from Las Palmas, and he quickly became an imperative member of the club. He is similar to Iniesta in that he can keep the ball under pressure.
He can dribble and create space for teammates, he has good vision, and he is a creative midfielder who can also play as an attacking midfielder.
 
 
Midfielder- Jamal Musiala
Musiala's rise in the world of football has been encouraging, and the player has been phenomenal with the ball at his feet. When he takes on defenders, the ball sticks to his feet like glue because he can play on the wings and anywhere in midfield. Despite the fact that the 19-year-old is frequently deployed in midfield and dictates the game from there.
And the fact that he is Bayern Munich's most important player demonstrates his talent and will undoubtedly cement his legacy as a promising young footballer.