Manchester United Women U-21s goalkeeper Safia Middleton Patel became the first player of Indian origin to be a part of Manchester United senior team’s matchday squad on Saturday against Arsenal. 

Manchester United have always had amazing goalkeepers in their teams; Peter Schmeichel, Siobhan Chamberlain, Edwin van Der Sar in the past and the likes of current players - Mary Earps, Dean Henderson, Sophie Baggaley, David de Gea. Safia is an emerging star who has been an integral part of the youth set-up at United under Charlotte Healy. 

In November 2021, Safia and her United team-mate Chloe Williams joined FA Women’s Championship side Blackburn Rovers on dual-registration with Manchester United Academy. Very recently, Safia and her United U-21s teammates progressed to the final of the FA WSL Academy League Cup after beating a tough Aston Villa side; Safia kept a clean sheet in the semi-final. Her performances for the academy have caught the eye of many fans and senior team manager Marc Skinner and as a result she was rewarded with a spot on the bench for United’s league game against league leaders Arsenal. 

Safia has represented Wales at U-17 and U-19 levels on the international stage. In her last three appearances for the Wales U-19 team, Safia kept a clean sheet in each of them (against Albania, Safia was subbed off in the 55th minute and Albania scored in the 83rd minute) as Wales won promotion to League A for the 2nd round of U-19 Euro 2022 qualifiers.

We've seen quite a few players from India who've played in Europe in recent years: 
• Aditi Chauhan at West Ham United and Hamar Hveragerol
• Bala Devi at Rangers
+ Many More

In December 2021, Zidane Iqbal became the first player, having a South Asian background, to play for the Manchester United Men's team. Seeing an Indian origin player (Safia) in the Manchester United matchday squad means alot to fans, especially the ones from India.

REPRESENTATION MATTERS 

Today, Safia was named in a 20-player Wales U-19 squad for their 2 games vs Scotland in February, in preparation for the U-19 Euro 2022 Qualifying Round 2. 

Safia has a bright future.