By Medha Dutta Yadav

Anu Kumar’s Her Name was Freedom: 35 Fearless Women Who Fought for India’s Independence, brings together the inspiring stories of the lives of some remarkable women, The book, brought out by Hachette, is a tribute to the feisty torchbearers of India’s independence movement, who left a lasting legacy for generations to come. From Sarojini Naidu to Matangini Hazra, from Aruna Asaf Ali to Rani Gaidinliu, from Muthulakshmi Reddi to Hansa Mehta, and from Annie Mascarene to Vijaya Lakshmi Pandit, the women show amazing courage in breaking their shackles and facing grave challenges to liberate the country.

Excerpts from an interview with the author:

How did the idea for the book germinate?

This is the 75th year of our independence and my Hachette editor, Vatsala Kaul-Banerjee, asked me if I’d like to work on something like this. I jumped at the offer. It was simply too exciting, I knew I’d love doing the research that it involved, to bring alive the period of our freedom struggle, to bring to life these women who were involved in it as much as the men, and who somehow, or in some cases, had been for long regarded as secondary to the movement.

What was the research process like? How long did it take?

I studied history at college and university and have been writing history-related stuff for quite some time now (across genres). So in a sense, I sort of knew how and where to look for source material and references. As for the research, I looked up primary accounts: the memoirs written by the likes of Kamaladevi Chattopadhyay, Durgabai Deshmukh, Qudsia Rasul, Kalpana Dutta, Vijaya Lakshmi Pandit, and others, evoke that period and time most vividly. Then there were other accounts by their peers—such as Yusuf Meherally writing about Aruna Asaf Ali; Jawaharlal Nehru’s Discovery of India, for example, and then newspaper accounts of the time. I also looked up secondary accounts—work by historians and writers.

Read more
https://www.newsdrum.in/books/india-at-75-the-women-who-made-a-difference-76167.html