A famous Indian musician Bappi Lahiri died reportedly due to sleep apnea- a breathing disorder during sleep which can lead to sudden cardiac death. Snoring is a common symptom but not all snorers have it. Dr Nishith Chandra, Director interventional Cardiology at Fortis Escorts Heart Institute clears doubts .

What is obstructive Sleep Apnea?
It is Under-diagnosed problem. May also lead to Sudden Cardiac Arrest, if not recognised/treated in time. 
Apnea means cessation/stopping of breathing-happens when the soft palate blocks the upper airway during sleep. Obstruction in breathing causes snoring. During snoring your chest muscles have to work very hard to keep the air flowing.
The person gets tired, breath becomes very shallow and transiently for some seconds/ may even stop breathing. The person wakes up gasping for breath-the cycle continues all night even 30/40 times an hour. All this happens without the person knowing and is noticed by the partner. So the oxygen saturation (measured by the pulse oximetry) also drops.

What all are the symptoms ?
When Oxygen does not reach body, the patient wakes up tired. 
Daytime sleepiness due to lack of a restful sleep- a patient can sleep even while sitting in chair or while driving which can be dangerous. 
Sleep Apnea is more common in obese patients not that it is unheard others. Obstructive sleep apnea occurs when the muscles in the back of your throat relax too much to allow normal breathing-they are roof of your mouth (soft palate), the triangular piece of tissue hanging from the soft palate (uvula), the tonsils and the tongue.
When the muscles relax, airway narrows or closes as you breathe in, hampering your breathing for 10 seconds or longer. There is a little extra block in obese patient. As the soft palate is very thick with fat, whenever a person lies in supine position with weight it can fall back and cause the blockage.
OSA is also a common cause of uncontrolled high blood pressure, as there is not enough oxygen in the blood the heart has to pump hard. Also irregular heart rhythms which can cause sudden cardiac death.