Manchester United have announced the signing of Adriana Leon on a two-year contract. Until recently, the Ontario born forward played for West Ham in the WSL. She joins the Red Devils on a free transfer after the expiration of her contract with The Hammers. 

Adriana Leon becomes the first Canadian International to sign for Manchester United; Owen Hargreaves, who won the Premier League & the UEFA Champions League with United in 2007, was born in Calagry, Canada but represented England at the senior level. 

Adriana on joining United: "To be the first Canadian female player to play for Manchester United fills me with immense pride and excitement."

Leon attended the University of Notre Dame and the University of Florida and represented their respective soccer teams. She was a part of the Notre Dame's women's soccer team that won the NCAA Championship in 2010. 

She has played in the NWSL in the past, representing Boston Breakers, Chicago Red Stars, Western New York Flash, NJ/NY Gotham (earlier Sky Blues FC) and OL Reign (earlier Seattle Reign). She was teammates with ex United full back Lotta Okvist at Boston Breakers in 2017. 

She joined West Ham United in 2019 and went on to represent them 59 times and scored 13 goals. Leon has represented Canada at the youth and senior levels and was one of the star performers in the 2018 edition of the CONCACAF Women's Championship where she scored 6 goals and guided Canada to the final against the United States. She was also a part of the Canada Olympic Team that won the Gold Medal in the Tokyo Summer Olympics where she scored a goal against Great Britain in the group stages as the game was drawn 1-1. 

Adriana's addition to this United side comes at the right time as United are in the market for some reinforcements in the attack department. Only time will tell how Adriana Leon's addition will help United's quest for UWCL football. Nonetheless, it is an exciting signing which marks the inception of United's summer transfer business.