The tiger is the largest of the 37 species of cats in the world and unfortunately has recently become the most endangered of all the large wild cats. All tigers face two major threats. One is habitat destruction. This not only results in less territory for the cats to live in but also leaves the tigers' territory fragmented into separate islands making is hard for tigers to mate, which make it difficult for the species to survive. Conservation efforts are often aimed at creating sanctuaries, which are connected by safe corridors, which will allow tigers to reach each other.
The second major threat to tigers is poaching. Poachers kill tigers for their valuable skins and bones. The bones are sold on the black market and used in traditional Asian items. Tigers require an extremely large habitat to hunt prey and raise their young. Moreover, tigers are solitary animals, which means they generally live alone. Tiger cubs usually stay with their mother for about two years before venturing out to establish territories of their own. Tigers used to be more widespread before man started to encroach its habitat. In fact, the current habitat of tigers is severely dwindled, with an estimated 93% lost in the last few decades. Consequently, the tiger is now listed as an endangered species by the IUCN Red List. For perspective, at the start of the 20th century, an estimated 100,000 individuals had existed in the wild. Today, that number is less than 4,000. If humans continue with their destructive actions, tigers may become extinct.With the population of tigers dwindling at an alarming rate, many countries across the world have launched campaigns that are designed to help increase the tiger population. One of the most important campaigns launched by India is the Project Tiger, which was launched by the first woman prime minister of India – Indira Gandhi. is important to save tigers and ensure that they are able to safely breed and continue their population because if it becomes extinct, the animal is gone for good.