Concept albums are a bit different from rock operas, as they are bound together by more of a loose overarching concept such as mysticism, death, life etc rather than just stories. Sometimes the narrative is very concrete while sometimes it is an extremely loose connection, with all the songs possessing a different narrative, being tied through a conceptual similarity.

Many times they do tell an entire story, though one of the key difference between rock operas and concept albums is that rock operas unlike concept albums are fully story driven, and need characters to tell the story. Nonetheless, the overall difference between rock operas and concept albums is very thin, so it is easy to get them mixed.

Listening to an album from front to back requires focus, patience and discipline, and that is doubly true for concept albums and rock operas which apart from telling a story based on either an underlying theme or narrative tend to dramatise things. 

The greater the shift to progressive, experimental or extreme tendencies, the stronger the dramatization which can throw people off a record. Concept albums are a difficult thing to get into, but give it time and you will love this wonderful new world of music that you have discovered.




Here are the top 20 greatest metal concept albums to get you started:


1. W.A.S.P – The Crimson Idol
2. Shadow Gallery – Tyranny
3. Queensryche – Operation Mindcrime
4. King Diamond - Abigail
5. Iron Maiden – Seventh Son of a Seventh Son
6. Opeth – Still Life
7. Blind Guardian – Nightfall in Middle Earth
8. Kamelot – Epica
9. Kamelot – The Black Halo
10. Virgin Steele - The House of Atreus Act 1
11. Virgin Steele - The House of Atreus Act 2
12. Dream Theater – Six Degress of Inner Turbulence
13. Mastodon – Crack The Skye
14. Seventh Wonder – Mercy Falls
15. Symphony X - The Odyssey 
16. Dream Theater – Metropolis Pt.2
17. Gojira – From Mars To Sirius
18. Cradle Of Filth - Cruelty And The Beast
19. Seventh Wonder – The Great Escape
20. Mastodon – Leviathan