1. Eunice Foote – She was an American scientist who first discovered the greenhouse effect. In the 1850s, she performed a series of experiments, where she filled glass cylinders with different gases, placed them in the sun, and measured temperature changes. It was demonstrated that the sun’s rays are warmer when passing through moist air compared to dry air - and they are warmest when shining through carbon dioxide.  Despite publishing her results before Tyndall, he is often credited with discovering the greenhouse effect.

2. Alice Ball – She was an American Chemist. In 1916, she discovered a cure for the deadly disease, Lepro. Oil from the chaulmoogra tree was known to alleviate symptoms, but it was difficult to apply and couldn’t be injected because the oil didn’t mix with blood. Ball discovered the method to transform chaulmoogra oil into fatty acids and ethyl esters that would make the medicine injectable. 
 
3. Rosalind Franklin – She was a British Biophysicist who studied DNA along with Watson and Crick. She was a crystallography expert who took the game-changing X-ray “Photo 51” of DNA in 1952 and also fully interpreted and described the double helix structure. In 1953, her colleague Maurice Wilkins showed James Watson and Francis Crick the X-ray data that Rosalind had obtained, confirming the 3D structure that the pair had speculated about for DNA. 

4. Esther Lederberg – She was an American Microbiologist. She laid the groundwork for future discoveries on on genetic inheritance in bacteria and gene regulation. Along with her husband, Joshua Lederberg, she had also developed an easy way to transfer bacterial colonies from one petri dish to another, which enabled the study of antibiotic resistance.

5. Nettie Stevens – She was an American geneticist. She performed studies crucial in determining that an organism's sex was dictated by its chromosomes instead of environmental or other factors. While studying the mealworm, she found that the males made reproductive cells with both X and Y chromosomes whereas the females made only those with X, which led her to the conclusion that sex is inherited as a chromosomal factor and that males determine the gender of the offsprin