‌Women's Representation has undergone significant changes in American politics.  From 1917, when Representative Jeannette Rankin of Montana became the first woman to serve in Congress, to the 115th congress, a total of 329 women have served as U.S. Representatives, Delegates, or Senators we have come far. 
‌
‌In the 115th Congress, 107 (78D, 29R) women hold seats in the United States Congress, comprising 20.0% of the 535 members; 23 women (23%) serve in the U.S. Senate, and 84 women (19.3%) serve in the U.S. House of Representatives.
‌
‌Between 1917 and 2018, the United States had 277 women serve in the House of Representatives. From 1922—when Rebecca Latimer Felton became the first woman to serve in the Senate—to the present, 58 women have served in the United States Senate.

Did we have a Women President? The United States is one of the few industrialized democracies to not have yet had a woman as its leader. It is mysterious that the country which promotes the rights of women and girls around the world had only male presidents.

Women have served as mayors in the United States since the late nineteenth century and as state governors since 1925.

 In 2008, the New Hampshire State Senate became the first state legislature upper house to possess an elected female majority. In 2019, the Nevada Legislature became the first state to have a state legislature composed of a female majority.

In popular media in the United States, female politicians see some focus on their appearance; more so than their male counterparts. A 2011 feminist journal by Carlin and Winfrey focuses on the portrayal of female politicians in the media. According to the journal, the way media perceives women and men is very different in the language they chose to use. The language chosen to talk or describe other people can either hurt or help them in a political campaign. The result of women being talked about in sexist terms can greatly affect their reputation and credibility. We are still struggling but we should acknowledge what we have achieved so far. Women are showing courage, making history and steadily making progress.