Life is about experiences and I aim to capture these experiences through my work, I am Mihir Bhatt an aspiring writer, designer, and law aspirant who believes in attaining the satisfaction level in achieving every trivial milestone.

Let's start with a story....When covid hit in 2020, I was uncertain about my goals, college and a lot of other things. But eventually in November 2020, when I got enrolled in DU, I saw it as an opportunity and started to write everything I observed and took certain aspects into consideration I decided to write and that' s when my writing journey began. I also enrolled in various competitions under Unstop (formerly Dare2Compete) , business quiz , various article writing competitions which provided me an opportunity to discover my interest in writing. This Is where first chapter of my writing journey started.Which can be considered as an unforgettable memories of my life . Because it was a turning point in my life .

After gaining motivation within myself and with the support of my family members , friends and teachers . I started my career.

Till now, I have published seven research papers and have co-authored four books. Which was a great opportunity for me .Not only this. Recently I have published a book based on business domain named Let's talk about business . The book in written to make the readers familiar with the very basics of the business . The framework of those book is designed in such a way that it covers all the aspects of business including the finance, human resource and management.

I believe in the concept of creativity. It plays a vital role and i think that everyone should think out if the box ideas.  I try to attach creativity while writing the books.

Not only this although my some of the hobbies includes writing , travelling reading novels of different domains of the great authors like Devdutt Patnayak , Robert Kiyosaki , Joana Penn and etc. 

My interest lies in the business domain and to enhance my writing skills. So that i can get more opportunities in future to get my books published.