Israel is holding a summit at Negev desert with Arab countries including Bahrain, United Arab Emirates, Egypt and Morocco. The summit’s significance for international relations and Israel itself will be far-reaching. And more importantly, it legitimises Israel in the eyes of the citizens of many Arab countries that are attending the summit. 

In a way, Israel is being rewarded for its efforts to establish relations with the Arab countries in the last few years. And the fact that the summit is being in Negev, which is the burial place of Israel’s founding prime minister David Ben-Gurion has its relevance. 

Israel has been isolated in the Arab world for years, but it can now work closely with Arab governments on various issues. Most notably with Iran. With US Secretary of State Antony Blinken being part of the summit, it is likely that Iran will be the focus, too. ( https://www.nytimes.com/2022/03/25/world/middleeast/israel-uae-bahrain-morocco-arab-summit.html )

A sworn enemy of Iran, Israel has been opposed to the nuclear talks between Iran and the Western powers to force to roll back its nuclear weapons program. Arab countries have a problem with rising importance of Iran in the Middle East and it is involved in proxy war in the region. ( https://www.voanews.com/a/blinken-to-attend-israeli-arab-summit-eyes-iran-and-ukraine-in-mideast-tour-/6503349.html )

The U.S. is likely to be under pressure as it tries to convince Israel and the Arab countries about the progress made in Vienna on the nuclear talks and what the reaction would be on the same. One of Iran's conditions with the Western powers is on the sanctions against its Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps. If the deal has to go through, Iran is demanding that the Revolutionary Guards be taken out of the terrorist list. Israel and the Arab countries are not likely to support the move. ( https://www.timesofisrael.com/negev-summit-shows-israels-new-legitimacy-and-the-common-imperative-to-tackle-iran/ )

Ahead of the summit, Blinken has warned Israel about its settlement expansion in Palestinian areas, resulting in the Arab countries being under pressure in their own countries. But how Israel manages its contradictions for the summit to be successful will be closely watched. ( https://www.haaretz.com/israel-news/LIVE-lapid-and-blinken-meet-ahead-of-israel-s-mideast-summit-1.10700744 )