The Texas Supreme Court Friday further restricted the possibility that its infamous anti-abortion law could be blocked. The law in question is called SB 8 and it bans abortion after six weeks of pregnancy, which for many women is too early, since most do not know they are pregnant within this time period.

Specifically, the law says that an abortion cannot be carried out once a doctor is able to detect cardiac activity in the embryo. The Centre for Reproductive Rights has said that some other states have passed “copycat bills” similar to the SB8, which include Alabama, Arizona, Florida, Idaho, Maryland, Minnesota, Missouri, Ohio, and Wisconsin.

The act states, “…a physician may not knowingly perform or induce an abortion on a pregnant woman unless the physician has determined, in accordance with this section, whether the woman ’s unborn child has a detectable fetal heartbeat.”

In what is remarkable, this law incentivises ordinary citizens instead of state officials to enforce the law. The legislation authorises private individuals to sue those who provide abortions after six weeks by bringing civil action against them. Such an individual is also offered $10,000 in damages apart from attorney’s fees and costs.

The Texas law is interpreted as one of the strictest anti-abortion laws since the landmark judgment delivered under Roe versus Wade on January 22, 1973, in which the Supreme Court ruled that undue state restrictions on abortion were unconstitutional. Essentially, this ruling decriminalised abortion nationwide.

In December last year, the Supreme Court, which has a conservative majority, signalled that they might overturn the 1973 landmark Roe versus Wade judgment.

In September 2021, the court had refused to ban the law because of its unique provisions giving citizens the right to enforce. The court had said it does not have the power to block such a citizen-enforced law.

The structure of the law has been criticised by some conservatives as well, who have warned that in other states, Democrats could implement similar laws going against constitutionally protected rights important for Republicans, such as gun control, religious practices and mask mandates.

Credit :- Theindianexpress