By Shreyoshi Guha

The last date to file your Income Tax Returns (ITR) for the current assessment year (AY) 2022-23 and financial year 2021-22 is July 31.

Every individual in the country, whose salary is beyond a particular income slab, needs to pay tax to the government annually. Different tax rates are prescribed for different ranges of income, hence Income tax is levied on the basis of a slab system.

There are three categories of “individual” taxpayers

Individuals (aged less than 60 years) including residents and non-residents

Resident senior citizens (60 to 80 years of age)

Resident super senior citizens (aged more than 80 years)

Although individuals are allowed to file their ITR even after the expiry of the deadline, they can be subject to an interest penalty under section 234A of the Income-tax Act, 1961, and also have to pay a late filing fee.

The ITR filed after the deadline is known as a belated ITR and there is a penalty.

Also, the date for filing ITR varies for different individuals. July 31 is the last date for filing ITR for individuals, Hindu Undivided Families (HUFs) and taxpayers whose accounts are not required to be audited.

Taxpayers who have undertaken international transactions during the relevant financial year under Section 92E have to file ITR by July 30.

How to file an Income Tax Return?

Technology has made our life easy. Filing ITR now is super easy with no hassle of long queues and missing deadlines.

You can file your ITR online with e-filing which is very convenient at your comfort from your home or office and in a short time.

Steps to login and register on the e-filing Portal:

Step 1: Go to the Income Tax e-Filing portal https://www.incometax.gov.in/iec/foportal/

Step 2: Register or Login to e-file your returns

In case you have registered yourself on the portal earlier, click on the “Login Here” button.

In case you have not registered yourself on the portal, click on the “Register Yourself” button

Step 3: Click on “Taxpayer” and then enter the details of your PAN and click on “validate”. Next, click on “Continue”.

Read the entire method here:- https://www.newsdrum.in/personal-finance/last-date-for-filing-income-tax-return-approaching-heres-how-to-file-an-itr-54241.html