Semi Final:

26 July

England vs Sweden


27 July 

Germany vs France


QUARTER FINALS


England vs Spain

2-1


England came into this match without conceding even a single goal in the first round. Spain scored first. With a stunning second half performance, England came back from behind in the 84th minute and won with a stunning strike by Stanway in the extra time(96').



Germany vs Austria

2-0


It wasn't easy for 8-time champions Germany against Austria. Magull gave Germany the lead in the 24th minute. 


Austria hit the goal post 3 times in the match. Buhl missed a tap in chance in the 81st minute, when Popp unselfishly squared a through ball to her. The second goal came when the Austrian goalkeeper hit Popp's leg, as she was trying to clear long from behind in the 89th minute. Popp scored in all 4 of Germany's matches.



Sweden vs Belgium

1-0


It was expected to be a one sided match for Sweden, but Belgian goalkeeper Nicky Evrard made it difficult for them. In a Man of the match performance, she made scintillating 7 saves to deny Sweden a goal. 


There were 62 attacking moves, 13 corners and a whooping 34 shots taken out of 8 were on target by Sweden. Finally, Evrard fell from a corner in the 90+2'. She made a brilliant save which went back to Sweden's defender Linda Sembrant, who smashed it into the net. 



France vs Netherlands

1-0


France unleashed waves after waves of attack in the Netherlands goal, but couldn't find the goal. French left winger Delphine Cascarino has been a constant threat, who hit the post in the first half once. Malard's close range shot was cleared off the line twice by Stefanie van der Gragt. The best chance came in the 86th minute for France, when Cascarino delivered a brilliant cross from right wing to the far post. Geyoro somehow missed the open net from 2 steps away.


The decisive penalty came in the 99th minute when Diani was fouled by Janssen. Goalkeeper Daphne van Domselaar made 10 saves but couldn't save Netherlands. Selma Bacha received the man of the match award. 