If you compare DC season 1 and season 2, S1 stands out recapturing that dark night and the following days and nights brought India to the street. Richie Mehta could drill down into the Nirbhaya case keeping DCP Vartika Chaturvedi and her efficient team on their foot until the culprits are caught. Richie had a serious job to do on paper and screen since it wasn’t just another case from Khaki Files: Inside Stories of Police Investigations written by former Delhi Police Commissioner Neeraj Kumar. Every bit of this brutal crime and punishment is up in our minds even after a decade.

DC Season 2 banks on Moon Gazer from the Khaki Files. Suddenly, a series of gruesome murders broke out in Delhi’s rich gated communities. Old people were bludgeoned to death with no provocation. Only clue left to the police was the kaccha-baniyan gang style. DNT,de-notified tribes were locked up and questioned and humiliated for the crime. Tanuj Chopra brings a shift in the original content here.

I watched the whole five episodes 
at a go. Who led me through was Shefali Shah. Undoubtedly, DCP Vartika Chaturvedi shouldered the case and show. Her accent, her style in interrogation, her briefing, her anger, her empathy, and her mindful interaction with the team..I was soaked in. The year is too bright for the assured actress with back-to-back hits. 

I am a bit disappointed with the dull, repetitive police procedures this season. Sub-plot was weak, not the script. The killers didn’t have a story behind them and the motive wasn’t clear when we finally see the last perpetrator. It was a powerless scene where the DCP had to convince us some convicts fail the police with their elusive answers. Here, the whole planning and chase land on a plain note. I thought about it -we should unlearn the molds to accept this fresh end. 

Everybody acted well, Rajesh Tailang, Anurag Rao, and Rasika Dugal – the sincere and dedicated team with the DCP. Rasika seems restrained trapped between a demanding job and domestic duties. Killers didn’t make any impact on screen.