Words are sharper than sword and anyone can get hurt with the insults they receive.  

Now new research finds that by using insulting words can impact our physical health too. The paper was published in Frontiers in Communication which suggests about hearing insults is equivalent to receiving a verbal mini slap on the face. 

Allison Forti, PhD, associate teaching professor in the Department of Counseling at Wake Forest University, who wasn’t involved with the study, said that, “The vast majority of people strive for a sense of community and belonging. This is driven by both a physical and psychological need for connection and survival. Therefore, people persistently scan their environment for threats to safety or belonging,” “Obvious threats include acts of physical violence but more subtle, though not necessarily more benign, can be verbal threats. Verbal threats or even minor insults can activate the human stress response alerting the mind and body to prepare for survival. When survival is tied to a sense of belonging or psychological safety, it may not take much to create a physiological response.” 

Words can hurt 
Women who took part in this set of series of repeated statements that were either insults, complements, or neutral, factual statements. Half of the three sets of statements that was used for the study used the names of the participants own name while the other half used somebody else's name. The participants were told that the statements were told by three different men. 

The study found that even in the lab setting, with the absence of natural interaction between humans and even knowing that the comments are coming from fake people, the insults still had an impact. 

The study can help the researchers to get a better understanding on social behavior, said the study author Dr. Marijn Struiksma of Utrecht University in a statement. 

“The exact way in which words can deliver their offensive, emotionally negative payload at the moment these words are being read or heard is not yet well-understood.", said Dr. Struiksma. 


Sources - Healthline