The crowd has rejected Laal Singh Chaddha, the most recent Bollywood film to star megastar Aamir Khan. If one looks at the box office results, the film has shown to be a failure. Reportedly, the number of screens for Laal Singh Chaddha have also been decreased due to declining ticket sales. Aamir's remarks about avoiding a theatrical conflict with this year's greatest blockbuster KGF: Chapter 2, starring Kannada star Yash, have shown to be accurate during the low box office performance put up by Laal Singh Chaddha. On April 14, the two movies were planned to clash. The film's post-production work was not finished, according to Aamir and his team, which caused a delay in its theatrical release.

During a special event of Laal Singh Chaddha last month in Hyderabad, Aamir opened up about the averted clash with KGF: Chapter 2 and said the film got "saved". "I remember when 'KGF 2' was about to release, there was a lot of excitement among the Hindi audience, amongst my own friends. Laal Singh Chaddha' was supposed to release on that day. But fortunately for us, Red Chillies was taking a little time on the VFX so we got saved! Otherwise, we would have come with 'KGF 2'," Aamir had said. His comments are ringing true. 

Laal Singh Chaddha was released on August 11. It clashed with another Bollywood release, Raksha Bandhan featuring Akshay Kumar. Both films are really struggling at the box office. Laal Singh Chaddha collected Rs 1.50 crore on Wednesday to take its collections to Rs 49.25 crore in seven days. This is despite the film being getting an extended weekend release and two major festive holidays. As for KGF: Chapter 2, the film's opening day collections for the Hindi-dubbed version was Rs 54 crore on day one alone. 

Before and after the release of Laal Singh Chaddha, there were calls to 'boycott' the film. The hashtags 'Boycott Laal Singh Chaddha' and 'Boycott Bollywood' have been trending even now.

Responding to calls that his new, much-awaited film be shunned, Aamir said he loves India and requested fans to not think otherwise.