By Kinjal
A video has been shared with the claim that a Dalit man was fed water from a shoe by upper-caste men.Twitter user @kanishksinghASP shared this video with the caption “हिन्दू धर्म मे पैदा होने वाले जो अपने आप को ऊंची जाती का मानते हैं और अपने समाज को सभ्य सामाज कहते हैं। ऐसे लोगो के दिमाग मे दीमक लगा पड़ा है, हज़ारों साल से। यह इसका treatment भी नहीं कराना चाहते हैं। जिसके कारण पूरा देश नफरत की आग मे झुलस रहा है। इंसान को इंसान नहीं समझते।” (Translation: People who are born as Hindus, who consider themselves to be upper caste and belong to a “civilized society” have termites stuck in their minds for thousands of years. They don’t even want to treat it, which is why the whole country is burning in the fire of hatred). The tweet garnered almost 4000 likes and over 2000 retweets.
Twitter user @newswaseemzaidi shared the same video with the same claim and garnered almost 4000 likes. 
Users @Banwari60103223 and @Golden_0786 also shared the video with similar claims.
The video has also been shared multiple times on Facebook.
The same video had also gone viral two years ago in October 2020 with similar claims of caste-based violence. Twitter user @anita_goutam1 tweeted the clip and subsequently took it down. Her tweet was quote-tweeted by @bkarwadiya who also deleted it later.
The video had been shared with similar claims by several Twitter users.
( Tweet Link )
“This video puts an end to the class difference between upper and lower castes. An upper-caste Hindu feeding his Dalit brother water from a shoe with love. He is setting an example of brotherhood by breaking barriers of casteism and untoucability. This is today’s new India, my country is indeed changing. (उच्च और नीच की भेदभाव को दूर करती यह वीडियो एक उच्च जाति का हिन्दू भाई अपने एक दलित भाई को प्यार से जूते में पानी पिलाते हुवे। जातपात छुआछूत के बंधन तोड़ आपसी भाईचारे की मिसाल देते हुए। ये है आज का नया भारत वाकई मेरा देश बदल रहा है।)” – read the sarcastic message shared with the clip on Facebook.
Readmore:- https://www.altnews.in/a-video-from-rajasthan-forcing-boy-to-drink-water-from-a-shoe-shared-with-false-caste-angle/?utm_source=website&utm_medium=social-media&utm_campaign=repost