Several ways have been tried to control the Maoist menace in the tribal forest areas. The traditional police solution looked at the problem from a law and order angle. In this approach the problem is seen to be against the law and hence needs to be crushed with absolute force. It relies in carrying out anti Maoist area domination operations and targeting the members and supporters in targeted raids. If we analyse closely as per law, it can be seen that the rebels are indeed on the wrong side of law and thus need to be tackled firmly. The armed members should be engaged in encounters and killed in organised raids. This will also increase the professionalism of the police. But there is a heavy risk of suffering casualties on the police side due to the unequal nature of the combat.  A second approach has been to look at the problem from a economic perspective, and an economic disparity reducing strategy is proposed. 

This is done in the way of more developmental grants for the Maoist affected areas. But the grants allotted are often siphoned off by the intermediaries, which plagues the actual flow to the affected areas. Also when more developmental projects are launched, then the contractors are targeted and even killed by Maoists to create terror and thereafter extract levy for the maoist organisational cause. This leads to further financial strengthening of the maoist organisation and emerges as a stronger threat.

 Another method to solve the problem is to use a holistic approach by involving the community and addressing the issue at various levels. The growth of Maoist ideology is traced in  community, and solution is proposed by involving the community at a psychological level. The police involves community in social welfare schemes and tries to function as a partner for general development and well-being. 

There is no compromise on the security of police installations, which are well defended, but there is a positive effort to reduce the gap between the community and police. Arrests of only hardcore cadre members is made, and innocent sympathisers or lay supporters are engaged in a positive manner which allows for change of mind.

To be continued...