By NewsDrum Desk

For people looking to press pause on ageing, it hasn’t always been as easy as it is today. Throughout history, people have used all sorts of outlandish anti-ageing skin care techniques – such as bathing in donkey’s milk as Cleopatra supposedly did, or applying mercury directly to the skin, as the Elizabethans did.

While the modern era has certainly seen its fair share of bizarre anti-ageing skin care methods – such as placenta and vampire facials – the latest trend in anti-ageing skincare is using science.

But with ingredients such as peptides, antioxidants, and acids now commonplace in ingredients lists, it can be difficult for someone without a background in biology or chemistry to know if what they’re putting in their basket really is backed by science – or if it’s just clever marketing hype.

Here, we take a look at three of the most popular ingredients currently found in many anti-ageing products – and whether there’s any evidence they do what they claim: Vitamin C Products containing vitamin C often claim that it “brightens” the skin’s appearance and encourages collagen production. The middle layer of our skin (the dermis) produces both collagen and elastin, which work together to give the skin its stiffness and elasticity. But as we get older, the skin produces less collagen and elastin – which is why we develop wrinkles.

Vitamin C is a bit tricky to deliver to the skin. This is because the outermost layer of the skin, the epidermis, acts as a barrier to water. Since vitamin C is water-soluble, this can make it difficult to develop a product that is able to get vitamin C into the skin.

But some research does suggest that concentrations above 5% of vitamin C may work on the skin. For example, one study found that in ten women aged 50-60, applying a cream containing 5% vitamin C to the forearms daily for six months showed an increase in collagen production in the skin.

Read the full story here:- https://www.newsdrum.in/fashion/do-these-three-popular-anti-ageing-skincare-ingredients-work-heres-what-the-evidence-says-29338.html