Alvin Toffler in “The Third Wave", stated, "The illiterates of 21st century will not be those who can not read and write but those who cannot learn, unlearn and relearn”.
Definitions of Life Skills – the beginning of wisdom
What are life skills? Life skills are defined as "the abilities for adaptive and positive behaviour that enable individuals to deal effectively with the demands and challenges of everyday life". ( World Health Organization)
UNICEF defines life skills-based education as basically being a behaviour change or behaviour development approach designed to address a balance of three areas: knowledge, attitude and skills.
 
Components of life skills
WHO categorizes a core set of life skills into the following three components:
a) Thinking Skills - include self-awareness, social awareness, goal setting,
problem solving and decision-making. To be able to think critically,
information should be provided to make informed decisions and choices. The skills to think critically can also be developed if the teenagers are allowed to look at different perspectives of an issue, the pros and cons of making one decision over the other, and realize the negative consequences of making hasty, unplanned decisions.
b) Social Skills - include appreciating/validating others, working with others and understanding their roles, building positive relationships with friends and family, listening and communicating effectively, taking responsibility and coping with stress. Social skills enable the adolescents to be accepted in society and accept social norms, which provide the foundation for adult social behaviour.
c) Negotiation Skills – It means not only negotiating with others but with oneself as well. For effectively negotiating with others, one needs to know what one wants in life, is firm on one's values and beliefs and can therefore say "no" to harmful behaviour and risky temptations. Life skills are innumerable, and the nature and definition of life skills are likely to differ across cultures and settings. However, analysis of the life skills field suggests that there is a core set of skills that are at the heart of skills-based initiatives to promote the health and well-being of children and adolescents.