As India prepares to celebrate its 73rd Republic Day on January 26, 2022 (also known as Gantantra Diwas), patriotic songs are perhaps the most appropriate way to embrace this day.
Indian Hindi movie industry or Bollywood has created and filmed several Desh Bhakti songs in connection with patriotism-themed movies.

Here is a list of songs that will evoke patriotism: 

1. Phir Bhi Dil Hai Hindustani patriotic song
Phir Bhi Dil Hai Hindustani is a 2000 Indian Hindi-language satirical film released by Red Chillies Entertainment and this movie title song Phir Bhi Dil Hai Hindustani is everyone’s favourite song.

2. Maa Tujhe Salaam (AR Rahman)
AR Rahman's melodies never fail to deliver goose bumps, don't they? Written by Mehboob, the song is from the album 'Vande Mataram', released in 1997. This has been the biggest selling Indian album of all time.

3. Teri Mitti (Kesari) 
Isn't it fitting that this patriotic song shouldn't be at the top of this list? One of the most popular patriotic songs from the movie Kesari, Teri Mitti. It will make you super-emotional.

4. Ae Watan (Raazi)
Both the female and male versions of the song, sung by Arijit Singh and Sunidhi Chauhan, managed to give people goosebumps. One of the lines in this song that makes me realise that I am truly proud of my Indian identity is 'Main jaha rahu, jaahan me yaad rahe tu', which makes me realise that India will always hold a special place in my heart, no matter where I am. 

5. Aisa Des Hai Mera’ 
This song from the romantic saga ‘Veer-Zaara’ takes patriotism to another level, as one appreciates the beauty of the motherland. 

6.Rang De Basanti (Rang De Basanti)
 Another Republic Day song by AR Rahman stole our hearts when it was launched. The title track from the movie Rang De Basanti is quite energetic and makes everyone lively.

7.  Chak De India’
No patriotic day celebration is complete without this fiery song from Shah Rukh Khan’s ‘Chak De India’, sung by Sukhwinder Singh. 

What songs are you listening to this Republic Day?