With an expansionist Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) taking its first step towards fulfilling Arvind Kejriwal’s national ambitions, he will now set his eyes on Gujarat, the home state of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and home minister Amit Shah, and Himachal Pradesh, the home state of Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) chief JP Nadda. Both the states go to polls in November-December this year. 

The AAP had already made a stunning debut in the 2020 civic elections in Gujarat's Surat where it bagged 27 of the 120 seats and ousted the Congress as the main opposition party. 

Kejriwal’s Punjab dream has turned out to be Rahul Gandhi’s worst nightmare as the AAP has the potential of seizing the Congress' space in both the poll-bound states and that is a major cause of concern for the grand old party. 

The AAP had by now succeeded in expanding its base in Delhi at the expense of the Congress. Apart from the minorities and the Dalits, even a section of the middle class had overwhelmingly voted for chief minister Arvind Kejriwal and his party. Till then, these were traditional voters of the Congress in the city state and have since stayed with the AAP in the last two elections, thus depriving the Congress of opening it's account. 

In 2013, the Congress was ousted from power in Delhi after three consecutive terms with Sheila Dikshit as it's chief minister. The grand old party bagged eight seats and the AAP won 28 in the 70-member House in the city state. The two parties eventually joined hands to form a coalition government and that invariably spelt a death knell for the Congress. 

The AAP-Congress coalition government lasted just 47 days. In the subsequent elections in 2015, the Congress failed to open its account with the AAP bagging 67 seats. The BJP managed to win 3.

The Congress repeated its performance in the 2020 elections while the AAP bagged 62 seats and the BJP improved its tally by winning 8.

Citing Delhi example, several Congress leaders believe that the AAP will usurp the Congress space only and eventually finish it off in these states. 