Lionel Messi being booed by fans on soccer pitch is an unprecedented sight. Yet, it did happen when Paris Saint-Germain beat Ligue 1 strugglers Bordeaux 3-0. In the match, every time Messi and Neymar touched the ball, the crowd jeered them with whistles. They were definitely dissatisfied with the fluent win over Ligue 1 strugglers Bordeaux – they were not ready to forget easily the defeat against Real Madrid in the Champions League with Messi and Neymar doing precious little. Naturally, some footballers have rallied behind Messi, it includes his former Barcelona teammate Luis Suarez. But one has to remember a couple of things before deciding to take sides.     
Let’s have a look at the other side of the story. The spread of Covid 19 virus and the subsequent lockdown for the past couple of years had almost made one forget that football had primarily been a spectators’ sport, always. Even the best of matches were played in front of empty stands during lockdown. Now the crowd is back in full force, it is time to welcome them back to the fold. After all, the spectators play a major role to keep the game alive and one has to give in to their likes and dislikes too. They had a big part to play in wide acceptance of Messi as the world’s greatest footballers in recent times; now they are upset about how the star Argentine failed his team on the big stage. Messi and his fans will have to swallow it, however bitter pill it may be.
Messi was booed by the PSG fans for reasons strictly related to football only. It wasn’t unfair on the part of fans to expect a team having Kylian Mbappe, Messi and Neymar to go beyond quarter-finals at the continental stage. They vented their frustrations by booing the players from who they expected most. But what about those who forced tennis star Naomi Osaka leave the court in tears at Indian Wells for reasons beyond sport? Should they be allowed to enter the stadium next time? Those who heckled the four-time Grand Slam winner should be barred for ever.