Amazon’s much awaited ambitious web series The Lord Of The Rings: Rings Of Power is finally here. Adapted primarily from appendices of The Lord Of The Rings books and some sections of the Silmarillion, the show is the world’s most expensive ever created being over a billion dollars in cost with a total five season commitment. As far as the production angle goes, it really is able to reflect its total cost from its sets, designs and VFX really showcasing its amazing and obviously expensive production, but that’s where the praise ends.
Unfortunately, not even the greatest production value can save a show when it is simply lacking in direction, and features some really stupid directorial choices which don’t aid in developing the narrative whatsoever. Then of course, one of the biggest problems of the show is the fact that this may have the worst uses of time management ever. Peter Jackson’s LOTR films were 4 hours with their extended edition but each seemed like barely one hour. Here, each episode is one hour though somehow they all seem to stretch out for five hours in length, dragging on and on.
It seems that from the get go, the makers of the show had no idea what the show was about and where it was supposed to head, with so much of it seeming so random that you can’t really seem to wrap your head around it, as it cuts between stories of several characters such as Galadriel, Elrond, Durin, Arondyr and Bronwyn, Harfoots etc. None of these story arcs have any kind of satisfactory build up, and worse still, even though they had the opportunity to use it, Rings of Power relegated the entire story of Morgoth and the destruction of the Two Trees of Valinor to the background. The acting is so so, the pacing horrendous and identity politics seems to play a greater role than bringing Tolkien’s rich world to life and paying him the respect he is due. Overall, this show is a massive bore and a thoroughly disappointing experience for any Lord Of The Rings or even general fantasy fans for that matter.
Score: 3/10