Taliban promise on International Women's Day: We make life easier for women according to our accepted customs

On International Women's Day, the Taliban promised to provide facilities for Afghan women "according to their accepted customs and in the light of Islam."

The group, which has been blamed for continuing the war for the past 20 years and is widely accused of violating women's rights, says the long war has hurt women badly.

The Taliban's foreign ministry said in a statement on March 8, International Women's Day, that "the long war in Afghanistan has made women very harmful," which seems to mean that they are vulnerable.

The ministry says the Taliban government is committed to addressing women's issues and providing Afghan women with a dignified life "in the light of Islam" and "in accordance with our accepted customs."


Taliban spokesman Zabihullah Mujahid also wrote on Twitter that International Women's Day was the best opportunity for "Afghan women to demand their religious rights."

He has said that the Taliban group protects what he calls the religious rights of women.

This group's interpretation of Islamic law is more strict than all Muslim countries.

The Taliban, which now rules Afghanistan, has been blamed for the past 20 years for continuing the war and reducing the quality of life of people, especially women.

Since returning to power, the group has severely restricted women from working and educating women, and by imposing its strict interpretation of Islamic law on Afghan women, has deprived them of the freedom to work and choose their own clothing.

Talking about women's issues, the Taliban said in a statement on International Women's Day (UNAMA) that the world today was witnessing a "catastrophic crisis in Afghanistan" that "affected everyone, especially women".


UNAMA emphasizes that Afghan women face severe inequality and discrimination.
On the occasion of International Women's Solidarity Day, Human Rights Watch says that the Taliban, like in the first round of their regime, have once again suppressed women and girls and intensified their oppression after taking control of Afghanistan.

Be to continued