Art historian Tapati Guha-Thakurta has played an important role in getting Durga Puja in Kolkata included in UNESCO’s Representative List of the Intangible Cultural Heritage of Humanity. Ms. Guha-Thakurta was the field expert who drafted the dossier for the Ministry of Culture seeking international recognition for the festival after having studied the puja in Kolkata for decades and published a book in 2015, I'n the name of the Goddess: The Durga Pujas of Contemporary Kolkata'.
Durga Puja in Kolkata, one of the country’s greatest cultural carnivals and street art festivals, got significant international recognition on December 15, 2021, when it was added to UNESCO’s Representative List of Intangible Cultural Heritage of Humanity.
UNESCO also applauded the responsible organisations in Kolkata for their attempts to integrate marginalised groups and people, as well as women, in their involvement in conserving the intangible cultural heritage, according to the state government’s letter.
The “well-deserved distinction” would enhance Kolkata’s creative and commercial economy, according to well-known art historian Tapati Guha-Thakurta, who was the field specialist in crafting the Ministry of Culture’s dossier for UNESCO.
“The Durga Pujas of Kolkata have taken on a particular aesthetic character in the last two decades. The Durga Pujas have offered an arena for creative activism in recent years, with artists expressing remarks on current social and political problems, ” said Ms. Guha-Thakurta, author of the book 'In the Name of the Goddess: The Durga Pujas of Contemporary Kolkata'.
The number of elements on the list of India’s Intangible Cultural Heritage has climbed to 14 with the addition of Durga Puja. The Kumbh Mela, the world’s biggest peaceful gathering of pilgrims, was inscribed in 2017 and is the most recent addition to the list prior to the Durga Puja. In 2016, yoga was added to the Kumbh Mela.
According to Ms. Guha-Thakurta, the Kumbh Mela is the only large-scale celebration that has been included in the list of intangible cultural heritage, and the others are specialised rituals that are endangered. “We had to convey that Durga Puja is not endangered."