Ayan Mukherji shared a video on his insta handle detailing the concept of Brahmastra & the vision behind it.

In the video, Ayan explained all the necessary details about the universe of Brahmastra being called 'astraverse'.. He wrote in the caption, “While Brahmāstra is a work of fiction, my attempt has been to celebrate Indian spirituality, in my own way, through this movie.

There are a total of seven astras in the Astraverse and the video opens with Ayan naming all of them – Vanarastra, Nandi Astra, Prabhastra, Jalastra, Pawanastra, Agnyastra and Brahmastra. He explains that these astras or weapons harness power from natural elements like wind, fire, water and the strength of animals like monkeys and bulls. Ayan later reveals that the film's hero, Ranbir, is the fireastra in human form. 

Talking about the birth of these astras, he says, “It begins with an image from a mystical time in ancient India where a group of sages are performing deep meditation deep in the Himalayas. For their meditation, the sages are blessed with the light of the universe. The most powerful and the most pure energy there is - Brahm Shakti. From this Brahm Shakti, astras are born, astras that have within them all the different energies found in nature."

What are Brahmansh in ‘Brahmastra’?

Brahmansh is a secret community, known as the keepers or guardians of these astras, and they goal is to protect the world with the powers of these astras against evil forces and the character of Amitabh Bachchan is shown to be their leader.

Talking about them, Ayan says, “Time moves forward and the Brahmansh carries on, passing the astras down from generation to generation, all the way into our world today, where the Brahmansh still exist among us in secret.”

Ayan shares why this film is so unique and different, “India, as it is today, is where Brahmastra: Part One is set and I believe this makes our movie very unique because a movie that combines ancient Indian inspiration with a modern world setting has never been done before. 

Link to the vision of Brahmastra:- https://www.instagram.com/tv/Cf8GT3aAkuS/?igshid=YmMyMTA2M2Y=