What is anxiety ?

Anxiety -- in small doses -- is a normal part of human life. However, it can become a serious problem when it becomes too frequent, intense or disconnected from reality. Healthy anxiety levels can help warn us about potential threats and increase our reaction speeds. But with an anxiety disorder, people may feel overwhelming worry or fear about otherwise mundane matters. In these situations, the brain can become unable to function normally. 


If you've been experiencing chronic anxiety, you're not alone. According to the American Psychiatric Association, roughly 30% of people experience anxiety disorders. This more recent estimate is significantly higher than the 19% reported in the early 2000s by the US National Institute for Mental Health. 


Anxiety disorders can interfere with daily life and can become debilitating in severe cases if left untreated. Thankfully, anxiety is treatable, and there is a wide array of treatment options. 

Natural remedies for anxiety ;

Although natural remedies for anxiety can be helpful for many people, these are not always enough to deal with anxiety disorders. If you find that natural remedies don't sufficiently help with your anxiety, consider speaking about anxiety treatment with a medical expert in mental health.

1 Limit caffeine intake ;
Caffeine is a stimulant, and in many ways, anxiety is a state of overstimulation. Caffeine intake can impact anxiety in individuals, but the relationship is sometimes complicated. Some research has indicated that a high level of caffeine consumption is linked to increased anxiety in men but not women. However, other instances have shown that low levels of caffeine intake may be linked to reducing experiences of anxiety.

2 Use aromatherapy to relax ;
Smell plays a special role in the human body. This sense is more directly connected to the brain than the other senses. Based on smell, our brains can determine important information about our environment and how we should respond. For instance, in a state of anxiety, the sense of smell becomes biased towards detecting threats.


Read more - https://www.cnet.com/health/mental/9-natural-remedies-to-help-treat-anxiety-without-medication/