Chinese investors are fast abandoning Australia as a frosty bilateral relationship dampens trade, with a report showing Chinese investment in Australia nosedived by almost 70 per cent last year to the lowest level since 2007.

A report by KPMG and The University of Sydney found Chinese firms laid out $808 million in Australia in 2021, compared to $2.5 billion in 2020. 

At its peak in 2008, when Beijing desperately needed natural resources to boost the economy, investors from China splurged about $19.1 billion in Australia, which was 24 times more than last year.

The number of deals last year almost halved to 11, from 20 in 2020. Four transactions — related to acquiring iron ore and lithium mines — accounted for most of the total Chinese investment inflows last year.

Since 2017, Chinese investment in Australia has been plummeting, but last year's results have shocked experts who have been monitoring the trend.

"The decline really has now gone to a level where there is literally none or very little investment coming from China," Hans Hendrischke, report co-author and professor in Chinese business and management from the University of Sydney, told ABC News.

"We are surprised in a sense that it's dropping so fast."

While there has been a diplomatic breakthrough and a significant shift in tone towards China from the new government, experts say it might take some time for Chinese investors to return.

Why the big fall?

In recent years, Chinese investors have been facing the double whammy of a domestic clampdown on capital export and stricter screening from Australian regulators.

In 2016, Beijing started to impose restrictions on capital outflows due to concerns over excessive debt, inappropriate investment and capital flight.

At the same time, Australia's Foreign Investment Review Board's (FIRB) tougher application process subdued interest from potential Chinese buyers.

Professor Hendrischke said the current geopolitical climate was another obstacle.

"US, very strongly, and Europe, [including] the UK, Germany and France, are screening Chinese investment now for any potential conflicts that they could have with Chinese controls over certain assets [and] Australia is part of that," he said.

https://www.abc.net.au/news/2022-06-22/chinese-investment-in-australia-plunges-70-per-cent/101048340