Paan refers to the Sanskrit word " parna" which means betel leaf. It has thousands year old history of its use by human beings arguably.. Mughal Emperors and Nawabs also used to taste it.
In Hindu mythology, it is believed to be a boon to be ralaxed by Lord Shiva. It is widely used in northern Indian states but sold in north eastern states alao. Benarsi paan is globally famous for its preparation with a different taste, making it famous. Speciality of Benarsi paan is its preparation and ingredients. Farming of betel leaf does not happen here but brought from Bihar, MP. Orissa and Bengal. Kattha with perfume and water is boiled, nuts remain under water for hours before use to avoid pressure on teeth, lime is mixed with water and milk also to be applied on leaf. And without use of chemical, a local made tobacco is mixed with rest ingredients to be tasted by tobacco bound customers. It makes Banarsi paan famous and tasty. Usually, Jagarnathi, Maghai, Desi and Sanchi varieties of betel is sold in varanasi nearly 50000 shops. Livelihood of around two lakh people depends on it, being the family members of 50000 sellers. Across the city, there are 10 famous shops which sell good quality paan Rs 8 to 10. Meetha paan is sold Rs 25. The most famous and branded shop is Keshav Tambool Bhandar siruated at Lanka, near campus of BHU. A majority of BHU teaching and non teaching staff includind directors and deans also themselves go to this shop in morning and evening to taste and get packed. Betel selling from the past is traditionally done by Chaurasia community but for economic survival others have also entered in to this profession as per their limited hansful investment to earn 15 to 20000 a month
The Prime Minister, Narendra Modi, keeping in mind the ambience and taste of Banarsis, had met five different celebrity local persons of different fields after becoming PM at BHU hallipad in 2019, out of them, one was Rajendra Chaurasia, an old student of BHU, who preferred his family profession of paan selling