Prologue continues.....
The inexorable march of time brought about momentous changes inthe history of India. Empires rose and fell. Invading armies from foreigncountries marched victoriously through this land many times and the peoplehad to pay a heavy price in terms of life and property.
The invaders who came to India before the Christian era – like theSakas, the Kushanas and even the Huns – set up their empires and graduallygot Indianized. Alexander the Great went back leaving some of hiscommanders and troops here and they in course of time mingled with theIndian people and became a part of the Indian milieu.
The invasions that began at the end of the first millennium of theChristian era led to a long period of subjugation of the Indian people.Sultan Mahmud of Ghazni (a place in Afghanistan) is remembered as a
bloodthirsty, ruthless invader who slaughtered the hapless people of India.Alberuni, a scholar and a contemporary of Mahmud, writes:
“The Hindus became like the atoms of dust scattered in alldirections and like a tale of old in the mouths of people. Theirscattered remains cherish, of course, the most inveterate aversion towards all Muslims.”
His raid on the Somnath temple in Gujarat was the darkest chapter of hisinvasion. The raid was meant to loot the invaluable treasure in the templeand also to deal a blow to the Hindu faith. Mahmud tried to spread Islamwith the might of his sword. The reaction it created was immense. Nehruwrites in The Discovery of India:
“These repeated invasions from the North-West brought many new elements into India’s closed thought and economy.
 Above all theybrought Islam, for the first time, to the accompaniment of ruthlessmilitary conquest. So far, for over 300 years, Islam had come peacefully as a religion and taken its place among the many religionsof India without trouble or conflict. There was no objection to a new religion but there was strong objection to anything which forcibly interfered with
and upset their way of life.
To be continued...