Sinus infection, also known as Sinusitis is a condition which is marked by the inflammation, or swelling, of the tissue lining the sinuses. What are sinuses? These are the four pairs of cavities (spaces) found in the head. These four cavities are connected by some narrow channels. These channels act as drainage that helps in keeping the nose clean and free of bacteria. Sinus infection happens when these channels get filled with air and thus leads to blockage of the path in the nose. They often get filled with fluid as well. When the air and the water get accumulated in these channels, bacteria growth begins, which causes an infection known as bacterial sinusitis.
What Causes Sinus Infection?
Apart from what is mentioned above, some of the major contributors to a sinus infection are cold which causes inflammation and swelling of the sinuses, which leads to a buildup or accumulation of mucus inside the passage of the nose. Some of the troubles that this condition can lead to are - snoring, difficulty in breathing especially when sleeping or lying down, acute headache and in serious cases this condition can also lead to severe signs of brain fever or meningitis. Worried? We get you, this condition can be difficult to manage, but there are some easy home remedies that are said to provide instant relief to the condition when it is getting worse.
Home Remedies to Treat Sinusitis Naturally ; 
1 Apple Cider Vinegar ;
This is one amazing ingredient which comes with several health benefits. Apple Cider Vinegar also known as ACV contains antibacterial properties which help in treating symptoms of flu, such as cold, cough, allergies, etc. All you need to do is take a spoon of ACV and consume it in a diluted form (mix it with water).
2 Steam therapy ;
Who doesn't know how effective steam therapy is when it comes to managing symptoms of cold and flu? 
Read more - https://www.thehealthsite.com/home-remedies/sinus-infection-5-extremely-effective-home-remedies-to-treat-sinusitis-naturally-903411/