Bitcoin has been conceived a long time ago, and since then it has successfully gained the title of ‘digital gold’. Bitcoin is known as the ‘digital gold’ because it serves as a long-term store of value that would resist broader economic trends and provide a hedge against inflation. But unfortunately, the Bitcoin price is crashing rapidly and has somehow set a foothold as an extremely volatile cryptocurrency which most investors should avoid primarily. The critical condition of the crypto market is one of the major reasons why emerging investors are treating cryptocurrencies as a volatile tech investment. But what is the real reason behind, BTC’s falling value?
Experts claim, that since the beginning of 2022, the crypto market has been intensely following the stock market, and a benchmark that is heavily weighted toward is tech stocks. The growing correlation between tech stocks or so to say the stock market, with the crypto market got the investment community quite worried, where several claimed that the decentralized market was not expected to suffer from factors originating in the mainstream economic and financial markets, but currently, everyone is grappling to find solutions and cope up with the present crypto market conditions.
 
Bitcoin vs Tech Stocks
Bitcoin’s performance has been extensively driven by risk assets like tech stocks. Experts believe, that earlier, there was almost zero to little correlation between Bitcoin and other risk assets, but with the growing mainstream adoption of cryptocurrencies in the economic and financial markets, Bitcoin and other altcoins became more and more influenced by the geo-political, economic, and other crises that the ravages the mainstream market. Analysts believe that it is only the aftereffect of getting exposed to the behavior of mainstream investors who are also, now a part of mainstream markets. BTC spiked immensely last year, which triggered several private and institutional buyers to join the market, they hoped to generate profits from their investments but instead found themselves with massive financial losses.
Continued in support section 
