We are living in the age of remakes and remasters. With the technology powering video games growing in leaps and bounds in quick succession with each passing generation, a video game of old whose true potential wasn’t fully realized thanks to the limited technologies of the time. Today the can be reborn as superior products with superior gameplay mechanics, re-designed sound, and new advanced graphics.
Re-releases of games are common, with old generation games released on newer consoles in order to promote a certain franchise and give younger players the opportunity to play these games. Remakes are a different breed altogether. Taking a game and redesigning it is a much more costly and time-consuming process. A remake however gains not just enormous fan appreciation, but also attracts new gamers.
Several games, identified today as classics, are in need of a desperate remake. While some have survived the test of time, some have not survived the growth in gaming technology simply making them obsolete . A remake, particularly a remake with a next gen engine would help the concepts of these games deliver up to their full potential if not outright surpass it. Now certain games on this list such as Sands Of Time, Dead Space and Knights Of The Old Republic are getting their deserved remakes, but there are many more out there that need to be remade with today’s technology:


Top 20 games that deserve a next gen remake:



1. The Witcher trilogy
2. Star Wars: Republic Commando
3. Star Wars: Jedi Outcast
4. Star Wars: Jedi Academy
5. Assassin’s Creed
6. Dead Space trilogy
7. Metal Gear Solid
8. Prince Of Persia- The Sands of Time to The Two Thrones
9 . Star Wars: Knights Of The Old Republic
10. Half Life 1 and 2
11. Warhammer 40,000 Dawn Of War and all its expansions
12. Silent Hill 1-4
13. The Lord Of The Rings: Battle For Middle Earth 1 and 2
14. Call Of Duty
15. Elder Scrolls 3: Morrowind
16. Elder Scrolls 4: Oblivion
17. Diablo 1 and 2
18. Castlevania
19. Command and Conquer
20. Fallout 1-2