
Denmark has been paid back in its own coin, and that too by people from their own country. A few days ago, Denmark kit manufacturers for the World Cup unveiled controversial kits for the national team as a mark of protest against the human rights violations in Qatar. The backlash, however, has come from within their country. A Danish human rights organisation has urged FIFA to permit referees to raise awareness on Denmark’s racism against vulnerable communities by donning armbands in Qatar. The organisation, DENMARK UNCENSORED, urged FIFA President Gianni Infantino in an open letter to “support marginalised and vulnerable people affected by the racist laws of the Danish government.” 
The group has also thanked the Qatar government for its extraordinary efforts in organising the World Cup. It urged FIFA to seize this chance to raise awareness of and recognise the “appalling circumstances” facing refugees and people of colour in Denmark who experience “intolerable violations” by the government. The letter also detailed various human rights abuses committed in Denmark against women, minorities, refugees and athletes. Denmark is the first nation in Europe to order a large number of Syrian refugees to return home.
Earlier, the Denmark kit manufacturer Hummel said in a statement: “We don’t wish to be visible during a tournament that has cost thousands of people their lives. We support the Danish national team all the way, but that isn’t the same as supporting Qatar as a host nation.” According to the announcement, the third kit, which is all-black, represents the “colour of mourning.” On the other two uniforms—a straightforward maroon home shirt and an all-white away jersey—the Denmark badge has also been “toned down.” According to Hummel’s statement, the Danes do not want to be associated with a World Cup that “has cost thousands of lives.”  Qatar in the past disputed the statistics regarding migrant workers who died while working on World Cup facilities, claiming that the real number at the time in 2021 was 37, and only three of those deaths were “work-related.”