Melbourne's 17-match winning streak is over with Fremantle reeling in a five-goal deficit to pull off a momentous 38-point upset win at the MCG.

The loss leaves the Demons just a win ahead of the Brisbane Lions, who defeated GWS by 14 points earlier on Saturday.

Geelong also enjoyed a win with a seven-goal defeat of Adelaide, while the Western Bulldogs thrashed West Coast by 101 points and Gold Coast scored a 67-point victory over Hawthorn.

The Demons were cruising towards an 11-0 start in 2022 after leading by 30 points late in the second quarter before Fremantle slammed through the last 10 goals of the match to make an almighty statement.

The Dockers, who were coming off disappointing defeats to Gold Coast and Collingwood, produced an eight-goal third-quarter burst to stun the reigning premiers.

Justin Longmuir's team led by 17 points at the final change and soaked up Melbourne's pressure to run away winners, 14.10 (94) to 7.14 (56), kicking 13 of the last 14 goals.

It was Melbourne's first defeat since losing to the Western Bulldogs in round 19 last year.

Melbourne was rocked by the early loss of superstar defender Steven May, who was subbed out at quarter-time following a friendly fire collision with fellow premiership backman Jake Lever.

In a major blow for the Demons, May will miss next week's clash with the Sydney Swans under the AFL's concussion protocols.

But Melbourne's downfall and Fremantle's revival did not solely stem from May's absence as the Dockers ran riot around the clearances to embarrass the Demons' all-star midfield unit.

The Demons' defensive structure was undoubtedly rocked without May but Andrew Brayshaw, Will Brodie, Caleb Serong and Sean Darcy set up the comeback out of the middle.

Brownlow Medal favourite Clayton Oliver had 24 disposals by half-time but was kept quiet after the main break as the Dockers reigned supreme.

Oft-maligned ruck-forward Rory Lobb kept the Dockers in the contest early, booting two of Fremantle's first three goals and asserting himself around the ground.