
We know type 2 diabetes is a chronic condition and the symptoms of it manageable and in certain cases the treatments, healthy diet and regular physical activity, it could reverse the condition. 
Now there are new research which shows that mind body practices like yoga could help people out from  type 2 diabetes, lower their blood sugar levels. Rooting from mindfulness, mind body practices are meant to be used with current standard treatments. 
By maintaining the blood glucose levels within the recommend range, people can reduce down the risk of complications that's linked with type 2 diabetes like cardiovascular disease, kidney damage, nerve damage and vision problems. 
Mindfulness yields similar benefits to diabetes medication 
The new analysis in the study, was led by Fatimata Sanogo, a PhD student in the department of Population and Public Health Sciences at the Keck School of Medicine at the University of Southern California in Los Angeles, expanded from the previous studies made and it included studies which focused on the benefits of other mind-body practices like the following: 
• meditation 
• qigong 
• mindfulness-based stress reduction (MBSR)
The majority of the study included the in the analysis were yoga interventions. 
The results from the new analysis showed that mind-body practices led to an average reduction of 0.84% in participants hemoglobin A1c (HbA1c). This was the measure of the average blood glucose levels during the last 3 months. 
Yoga had the biggest impact on the blood glucose levels which led to HbA1c reduction of 1%. While the other mind-body practices also had a positive impact on blood glucose. 
Study author Richard M. Watanabe, PhD, a professor of population and public health sciences at the Keck School of Medicine at USC, shared with Healthline that many doctors who are experts in diabetes would not be surprised to find out that mind-bkdy practices can positively impact the blood glucose levels. 
“What is surprising in this study, though, is the magnitude of the effect,” he said. “It’s almost the same effect size that you would see with pharmacologic intervention.” 
Sources - Healthline 