A survivor of childhood sexual abuse by former ACT elite junior cricket coach Ian King is suing Cricket ACT and Cricket Australia for the disastrous fallout of his abuse, lawyers for the man have confirmed.

On Friday, Arnold Thomas and Becker Lawyers issued a writ in Melbourne's Supreme Court, seeking damages and compensation after the man was "robbed" of his childhood and suffered "significant mental health disorders which have impacted his life and career prospects."

The plaintiff, a member of elite ACT junior development squads in the early 1990s and 13-years-old when King's abuse of him began, reported the matter to police in 2006.

A remarkable aspect of the case is the discovery of a police statement given in 2006 by a coaching colleague of King's, who confirmed that Cricket ACT was aware of King's reputation as a sexual abuser when he commenced his decade-long stint coaching ACT junior teams.

In the statement, seen by ABC Sport, former ACT junior coach and team manager Ray Hatch told police: "Within this first year that Ian was with ACTCA, rumours were circulating the Association that Ian liked little boys."

"This information came from the interstate cricket community that Ian had come over from, I think it was Western Australia."

"As a result of these rumours, Richard Done, who was the director of coaching ACTCA at this time, and I kept an eye on Ian's interaction with the young children."

"As far I knew everything was fine and there were no incidents with Ian."

In reality, King was a prolific abuser of boys in his elite ACT Under-17 and Under-19 squads in the decade following and is currently serving a 19-year jail sentence for a string of serious sexual offences against boys he mentored in the 1980s and 1990s.

Now the cricket operations director of USA Cricket, Richard Done did not respond to interview requests from ABC Sport.

In the decade before his stint in Canberra, King had also coached elite Western Australian junior representative teams. In the late 1960s, King enjoyed a successful but brief career as a fast bowler in Queensland's Sheffield Shield team and was also a professional boxer.