Melbourne is a town brimming with tunes. From intimate vinyl bars to stages graced by local legends, there’s a music venue waiting for you in the laneways of the city. Get out and discover the soundtrack of the city at these late-night haunts.

Her Music Room

Located on level one of the multi-venue vertical playground Her, The Music Room is a beacon for audiophiles and vinyl collectors alike. Thousands of handpicked records line the walls. This soundproof listening bar is a sanctuary from the buzz of the rooftop above. Settle in with a whiskey as the guest DJs and selectors spin your soundtrack until 3am.

Max Watts

Venture beneath Swanston Street to an iconic subterranean band room. Formerly known as the Hi-Fi Bar, Max Watts packs in the punters with a host of local, national and international acts almost every night of the year. Everyone from Paul Kelly to The Strokes and Edward Sharpe and the Magnetic Zeros has graced the ballroom stage.

Cherry Bar

Cherry Bar needs no introduction; just know you can roll on in at any hour and be entertained by some great rock and soul music. The legendary rock’n’roll bar may have new digs in Little Collins Street, but the tried-and-true mix of music-obsessed DJs, live bands and brews lives on. Party until the sun comes up as Cherry Bar kicks on into the wee small hours.

The Last Chance Rock & Roll Bar

Venture further than your usual CBD radius and you’ll be rewarded with a rollicking good time at Last Chance. It's located in a grungy yet charming classic rock venue on Victoria Street. You’re bound to find the usual suspects making their home amongst more modern touches, including a vegan menu. Open until 7am and offering up to 8 shows a week, live music is far from dead at Last Chance.

Miscellania

Journey into experimental sounds on the dancefloor of Miscellania. A rooftop bar, performance space and late night social club, the only requirement here is a love for music and an open mind. Think deconstructed club sets, new record launches and epic all-day raves.