Natural Yellow Sapphire—Gemstone
of the Preceptor of God’s-Jupiter continues....

Yellow Sapphire in Capricorn Ascendant

This ascendant is ruled by the Karmic 
planet-Saturn. In this ascendant Jupiter becomes the Lord of the 3rd house of siblings, courage and initiatives and the 12th house of expenditure and losses. Yellow sapphire should be considered only in Jupiter planetary periods. Those individuals in whose horoscopes, Jupiter is posited in 3rd, 4th, 7th and 11th houses can give strength to Jupiter by wearing yellow sapphire only when the Jupiter planetary periods are operating.

Yellow Sapphire in Aquarius Ascendant

This ascendant is also ruled by Saturn and Jupiter is not generally considered as an auspicious results producing planet in this ascendant. Yellow sapphire should be considered only when Jupiter periods are in operation and Jupiter is placed in 1st house, 2nd house, 10th house or the 11th house.

Yellow Sapphire in Pisces Ascendant

Jupiter is a key planet for it becomes the lord of the ascendant and the 10th quadrant house of career and profession. 

Those individuals in whose charts, Jupiter is placed in 1st house, 5th house, 9th house or 10th house can wear yellow sapphire gemstone for life. Individuals in whose charts, Jupiter is posited in 2nd house, 3rd house, 4th house or 7th house can give strength to Jupiter by wearing yellow sapphire in the major period or sub period of Jupiter.

When to wear Yellow Sapphire Gemstone

One should always consecrate a gemstone ring or pendant and wear it in the most potent time frame selected according to Electional astrology. The yellow sapphire should be set in gold and be worn in the index finger. It should be worn on a Thursday in the constellation of Pushya. If this combination is not possible at the time required and it is important to wear the yellow sapphire then wear it in any Shukla Paksha (Waxing Moon Period), Thursday in the hora of Jupiter. Alternatively one should consult an astrologer who would take out an auspicious time for wearing the yellow sapphire as per the horoscope.

To be continued...