The Kashmir Files, directed by The Tashkent Files fame director Vivek Ranjan Agnihotri, is slated for release in theatres on Friday, March 11. Before its release, at a select few special screenings, it has proven to be a tear-jerker and left audiences deeply emotional and introspective.

At the other end of the spectrum is the response to this so-called 'controversial' film by one Intezar Hussain Sayed, who filed a PIL in the Bombay HC seeking a stay on the release of the film. His plea, however, was dismissed by the HC and the film will now release as per schedule.

So, what is it that makes this film ‘controversial’? Going by its trailer, the film appears to document the exodus and genocide of Kashmiri Pandits in the early 1990s. It is based on video testimonies of scores of Kashmiri Pandits, who experienced the grim days of the exodus/genocide first hand.

Starring Anupam Kher, Mithun Chakraborty and Pallavi Joshi in lead roles, The Kashmir Files seeks to bring to the fore the pain of expulsion and the trauma of displacement faced by the Pandits, without any filters. Based as it is on real-life incidents, it is sure to ruffle the feathers of those who have been propagating a particular kind of narrative around Kashmir till now.

Supporters of the ‘Azadi’ of Kashmir and so-called ‘armchair freedom fighters' could also be expected to be left high and dry by the storyline and treatment of this feature film.

Belonging to Bhopal, Madhya Pradesh, director Vivek Ranjan Agnihotri is a well-known figure in the film industry. Author of the bestselling book ‘Urban Naxals: The Making of Buddha in a Traffic Jam’, Agnihotri can be expected to come up with thought-provoking content and going by the reactions of some of the audience members at the Delhi screening of the movie, that is just what he has done with his directorial venture, which also stars wife Pallavi Joshi in a prominent role.

The wait to see the movie seems endless. Here’s hoping Friday arrives soon and brings forth a new dawn for Kashmir.