Resplendent with a charismatic protagonist, politicians, two of the world's biggest football clubs, and hundreds of millions of dollars at stake, the Kylian Mbappé saga kept the football world gripped as he oscillated between signing for Real Madrid and staying at Paris-Saint-Germain.

As a World Cup winner at just 19, the second teenager -- after Pelé -- to score in a World Cup final, and the Ligue 1 top scorer for four consecutive seasons, Mbappé is a once in generation footballer.

The 23-year-old star striker had long been linked with Real Madrid. He was invited to the Spanish club's academy as an 11-year-old, had posters of Real's Cristiano Ronaldo on the walls of his childhood bedroom, and had said he wanted to join the now 14-time European Cup winners last year.

The Spanish giants submitted a $188 million bid for Mbappé in August. The deal was close to being struck, and the striker even admitted at the time that he wanted to leave PSG.

"I was honest. I gave a feeling, I gave what I have in my heart," Mbappé told CNN's Becky Anderson in December.
So, when the Frenchman extended his contract with PSG instead of signing with Los Merengues, it was a shock -- to say the least.

"It was the hardest decision of my life," Mbappé told CNN's Amanda Davies on May 23. "I wanted to make the best decision ... and that takes time ... but I think I made the right decision."

'The project is to win always'

Mbappé explained his decision to stay in Paris by repeatedly referencing the "project" being built at PSG.

Despite drawing upon seemingly limitless reserves of money, PSG has so far failed to win a Champions League title, and has an unfortunate knack of imploding in the knockout stages.

Now, it appears the club is altering its approach.

"If I change all the things I want to change in the club," said Mbappé before pausing and recalibrating. "If the club grows up with me, if I can write the history of the club collectively with the Champions League or individually too, I will be happy with this contract.

https://edition.cnn.com/2022/05/28/football/kylian-mbappe-contract-psg-real-madrid-spt-intl/index.html