A healthy diet do play a vital role and especially while loosing weight after pregnancy, adequate nutrition and vitamins must be added to our diet. 

Actress and movie stars have always given the audience an inspiration with their diet routines. 

Today, let's check out what diet plan actress Shilpa Shetty Kundra followed post pregnancy. 

In her book titled The Great Indian Diet, which she has co-authored with celebrity nutritionist Luke Coutinho, Shilpa says, "No matter what diet you choose, you should be aware of your life and the way you live". 

Wake up routine 
At about 7: 30 am, Shilpa used to take 15 ml aloe vera juice plus ten Tulsi leaves, jaggery and ginger followed by 2 glasses of warm water at 7:45 am. 

Breakfast 
At around 8 am, she had 1 small bowl of oats cooked in water with a dash of milk or muesli in skimmed milk, or two whole eggs with whole wheat toast and almonds soaked in water overnight. At 9 am, Shilpa used to have tea with milk and brown sugar.

Lunch 
Her lunch included a bowl of brown rice topped with 1 tsp of ghee, any vegetable and one portion of chicken or grilled fish at about 1 pm. Or it could also be replaced with beans, one raw carrot, one glass of salted chaas with roasted jeera. For dessert, she used to have a piece of jaggery chikki or dudhi halwa made with raisins and dates. She had this dessert twice a week until she lost 10 kgs. 

Dinner 
For the dinner, mixed vegetable soup or chicken soup was necessary for her. The vegetable soup was made using tomato, pumpkin and greens). Along with this, a salad that consisted of tomato, sprouts, apple, beetroot, and lettuce tossed with a little chaat masala. She used to have it by 7:30 pm. 

Main Course 
Shilpa ate moong dal chillas for dinner post soup with paneer till she lost 10 kilos. After that, she used to have Grilled and stir-fried chicken with veggies or Steamed and braised fish with beans or broccoli and mushrooms along with one carrot.


Read more - https://www.google.com/amp/s/m.timesofindia.com/life-style/food-news/this-is-the-diet-chart-shilpa-shetty-followed-for-weight-loss-post-pregnancy/amp_etphotostory/77927353.cms