Debut albums are the most important for any artist. Serving as an introduction for the band, debut albums are also the foundation for a band to base their sound on, serving as platform for both the band’s core sound as well as the medium by which they can refine it, whatever the means. It takes a rare combination of skill, intuition, musical sense, luck, the right people and chemistry among musicians to make a bonafide killer debut album right off the bat. Few have ever achieved such a feat,  because when starting out few have an idea of what they want their sound to be. Sadly this leaves their debut albums to be forgettable if not outright unbearable pieces of noise which even the band members wish to discard. But for some in a surprising twist, their debut turns out to be their best offering. A debut for any rock group or artist, requires musicality, power, energy and emotion.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Top 30 rock debut albums: (Not in order)
 
 
1.   Kingdom of Madness (Magnum)
2.   Van Halen (Van Halen)
3.   In The Court of the Crimson King (King Crimson)
4.   Rush (Rush)
5.   Appetite For Destruction (Guns N’ Roses
6.   Led Zeppelin (Led Zeppelin)
7.   Queen (Queen)
8.   Core (Stone Temple Pilots)
9.   ….Very’ Eavy…Very ‘Umble (Uriah Heep)
10.      Aerosmith (Aerosmith)
11.      Contraband (Velvet Revolver)
12.    Freak Out (The Mother of Invention)
13.   Shades of Deep Purple (Deep Purple)
14.   Are You Experienced (Jimmy Hendrix Experience)
15.    Damaged (Black Flag)
16.    Undertow (Tool)
17.   Walk Among Us (Misfits)
18.   Bad Brains (Bad Brains)
19.   Hybrid Theory (Linkin Park)
20.   Rage Against The Machine (Rage Against The Machine)
21.   Suicidal Tendencies (Suicidal Tendencies)
22.  My Generation (The Who)
23. The Piper At The Gates Of Dawn (Pink Floyd)
24. Saturate (Breaking Benjamin)
25. Pretty Hate Machine (Nine Inch Nails)
26. Gish (Smashing Pumpkins)
27. Transnational Speedway Leagues (Clutch)
28. Boston (Boston)
29. Blue Oyster Cult (Blue Oyster Cult)
30.Gluey Porch Treatments (Melvins) 