Former Prime Minister Scott Morrison installed himself in five portfolios – including treasury – just days before the May 2021 budget.

Anthony Albanese gave details of his predecessor’s extraordinary actions at a Tuesday morning news conference. The prime minister said he had sought advice from the solicitor-general on the legality of what had happened, which he would receive on Monday.

“I am seeking further advice as to the use of these extraordinary powers by Scott Morrison.”

Morrison became health minister on March 14 2020, finance minister on March 30, 2020, home affairs minister and treasurer on May 6 2021, and minister for industry, science, energy and resources on April 15 2021.

Josh Frydenberg, who was treasurer and deputy Liberal leader, didn’t know Morrison had moved into his portfolio. He delivered the 2021 budget on May 11.

Liberal frontbencher calls for Morrison’s resignation from Parliament
Karen Andrews, who was home affairs minister, said she had not known of the pairing arrangement and called for Morrison to resign from parliament.

“I had absolutely no knowledge and was not told by the PM, PMO nor the department secretary. This undermines the integrity of government,” she told The Australian.

Departmental secretary Mike Pezzullo did not know of the arrangement
Opposition leader Peter Dutton refused to back Andrews’ call for Morrison’s resignation.

Morrison, who refused to comment on Monday, went on 2GB to defend himself on Tuesday morning.

“They were very unconventional times,” he said. Ministers, including Dutton, had gone down with COVID. “We had Boris Johnson, who almost died one night, I remember that night very vividly. I was very concerned he wouldn’t be with us in the morning.”

Speaking before Albanese’s news conference, Morrison was asked whether he had assumed any control of any other portfolios beyond health, finance and resources (those initially revealed).

“Not to my recollection,” he said. “I’m pursuing that, but not to my recollection. There were a number that were considered at the time for safeguard reasons. But I don’t recall any others being actioned.”

Read more: https://theconversation.com/scott-morrison-made-himself-treasurer-days-before-the-2021-budget-188808