Football super power Brazil's women reached the final of the Copa America Feminina without conceding even a single goal throughout the tournament. They have reached in all 9 of the tournament editions and have been champions 7 times, except in 2006, when they lost to Argentina in the final. It's Colombia's third final entry. They were beaten in the finals of 2010 and 2014.


It's another great achievement for the Swedish coach of Brazil, Pia Sundhage. She was the head coach of the United States women's national team from 2008 to 2012 and led the team to two Olympic gold medals and a silver medal at the World Cup. Her success led to her winning the 2012 FIFA World Coach of the Year. Sundhage later became the head coach of Sweden from 2012 to 2017, winning an Olympic silver medal in 2016. 


In the semi final, Caicedo scored the only goal of the match. Goal came in the 63rd minute. Caicedo received a ball in the area, briefly outlined herself with her left leg and crossed the ball to goalkeeper Vanina Correa.


Paraguay could resist Brazil in just 16 minutes. After a series of shots from Brazil and rejections from Paraguay in the area, Debinha served midfielder Ary, who scored the first goal of the night with a left-footed shot. 


When Brazil barely warmed up the engine of its machinery, in the 28th minute, Beatriz Zaneratto scored the second. Paraguayan winger Fabiola Sandoval wanted to throw a long ball, but full-back Antonia stood in the way. The ball fell to Zaneratto, who finished it to double the lead. 


With this result, South America defined the finalists as its two representatives at the 2024 Olympic Games, which will take place in the French capital.


Brazil and Colombia also secured a place in the 2023 World Cup. On Friday, between Paraguay and Argentina in Armenia for a third ticket to the top event in the category will be played The loser of this last duel will go with Chile to the World Cup playoffs.


Columbia last played a World Cup in Canada-2015 and an Olympics in Rio de Janeiro-2016.