Six Gujarati towns will hold 36 sports during the 36th National Games
Gujarat will host the 36th National Games from September 27 until October 10, 2022. More than 25,000 participants will participate in the competition, which will feature 36 sports and be conducted in six cities: Ahmedabad, Surat, Gandhinagar, Vadodara, Bhavnagar, and Rajkot.
The opening ceremony will take place in Ahmedabad at the Narendra Modi Stadium, the biggest stadium in the world. There will be 14 sporting events at 8 locations in Ahmedabad, followed by eight events at 3 locations in Gandhinagar, two at 3 locations in Rajkot, three events at 1 location in Bhavnagar, four events at 1 location in Vadodara, and four events at 2 locations in Surat.
Gujarat has the most excellent facilities, accommodations ranging from 3-star hotels to 5-star hotels, and top-notch cuisine to host the events and the athletes. The state is holding the National Games for the first time. Officers from the National Federation have visited sports facilities throughout Gujarat.
Gujarat has been chosen to host the National Games due to its experience in hosting and organising events like the Khel Mahakumbh, which attracts 55 lakh players, the Vibrant Gujarat Global Business Summits, which have held nine editions to date, etc. Gujarat has also won numerous awards for its hosting and organisation skills. Additionally, the state has excellent access to all major Indian cities by road, rail, and air links. The Gujarat University, IIT Gandhinagar, Mahatma Mandir, and Narendra Modi Stadium may be world-class sporting facilities. Given that India is slated to host the Olympics in the future, this is a pivotal time for the state and the nation.
The 36th National Games will be held in Gujarat, and the state is proud to host them. Minister of Sports, Youth, and Cultural Affairs Mr Harsh Sanghavi stated, "Gujarat government is dedicated to supporting and providing its youth with training and related facilities. We now have top-notch stadiums and practice facilities. Events like Khel Mahakumbh help to prepare the next generation. The administration is working diligently to make the required preparations since it is an honour to host the 36th National Games.''