Delhi and Chandigarh have won their respective league matches on the first day of the Sardar Patel National Divyang Svayam T20 Cricket Cup held at Talkatora Cricket Ground, Delhi, on Wednesday.

The tournament is organised by the Differently Abled Cricket Council of India (DCCI) and supported by the Department of Empowerment of Persons with Disabilities (Divyangjan), union ministry of social justice and empowerment.    

Deputy Speaker of Delhi Legislative Assembly Rakhi Birla was the chief guest on the opening ceremony of the three-day tournament.

On the first league match of the day, Delhi got the better of Baroda by 130 runs.

Batting first, Delhi scored 227 runs for loss of six wickets in the stipulated 20 overs. Rovesh Nayar with 62 runs in 34 balls was the highest scorer for the side. Farman scored 40 runs for 20 balls, while Chintu Choudhary chipped in with half century, scoring 55 runs in 15 balls.

Mehtab Ali (11), Arif Siddqui (17) and Thakur Viml Parmar (22) were the other contributors for the Delhi team.

As far as bowling was concerned, Baroda’s Siddharth Shah scalped three wickets for 47 runs, while Mayank Darji took two wickets and Hitesh Ghodasara took one wicket.      

In reply, Baroda team lost their entire batting line up and could only manage to score 97 runs in 15.2 overs. Nirmal Patel with 53 runs in 31 balls was the highest scorer for the losing side. Bhavin Gandhi (18) and Mayank Darji (10) were the other two batsmen who could touch the double digit mark.   

For Dlehi, Mo Saik took three wickets for eight runs, while Baljinder Singh (1), Chintu Choudhary (1), Mehtab Ali (1), Rovesh Nayar (1) and Prem (1) were the other wicket takers.   

In second match, Chandigarh defeated Madhya Pradesh by eight wickets. The match was stopped due to rain, but because of better run rate Chandigarh was declared winner.   

Batting first, Madhya Pradesh scored 174 runs for the loss of eight wickets in 20 overs.

In reply, Chandigarh were 58 for 2 in 6.1 overs when rain stopped the match.  