Raising the bar for itself, Netflix comes with a thrilling crime documentary with the “Indian Predator: The Butcher of Delhi”. The three episode crime documentary directed by Ayesha Sood deals with the serial killer Chandrakant Jha, who in the most blood curdling fashion used to kill, decapitate and dismember bodies and scattering the parts all around Delhi. Furthermore, he would then leave notes taunting the police. Chandrakant Jha was convicted of three murders, accused of seven, even though he himself boasted of having a kill tally of 44.


Rather than a suspense builder, “Indian Predator” is more of a psychological analysis into the mind of a demented serial killer, exploring the morbid and gruesome details behind the murders. The series goes about narrating the details of the murders through the perspectives of the Delhi Police,  Jha’s defence lawyer and the residents of the village.

Since Delhi Police had little experience in dealing with serial killers, the show honestly does not paint the national capital’s cops in a very favourable light. We often see the Delhi Police stumbling in the dark completely clueless, even as the murderer repeatedly gave them clues. The documentary shows Delhi Police treading into the unknown, unprepared, and what they did to evolve.

But being more than just crime documentary, the show functions as a great case study. Relatively straightforward in its approach, the show does not glamourize or whitewash, but rather it shows how the victims of Jha were not just nameless figures but actual human beings who were over the years forgotten to time.

The show is also a great study on class divide, as many of the victims remained undetected for years because they were poor migrant labourers whose cases were not on the police’s priority list, showing just what the status of migrant labourers really is. However, while class divide was indeed a factor, the show has an unfortunate tendency to go too much into it. Nonetheless, a strong and gripping show, the Netflix crime documentary is a great product of investigative journalism, that bringing to light details which would otherwise be unavailable to the public eye.
 



 
 
 
 