1. Avocado on Whole-Wheat Toast
  Avocado is a fruit that's naturally high in fiber and full of healthy fats that are good for your heart and your blood sugar, Sauceda says. And even better if you mash it over a piece of whole-wheat bread.

2. Whole-Grain Bread with Natural Peanut Butter
make sure you're using 100% whole-grain bread—look for "whole grain" to be the first ingredient on the list—that has at least 2 grams of fiber per slice, Cartlidge says. Keep calories down by sticking with only one slice but slap on some natural peanut butter with no added salt or sugar. 

3. Energy Bites
Nuts contain protein, fat and fiber, and they've been linked in numerous studies to decreased fasting blood sugar and blood sugar control, Sauceda says. If you want to boost the protein content of your energy bites, use a scoop of protein powder or nuts with higher protein content, like peanuts or almonds.
4.  Greek Yogurt with Berries
Greek yogurt gets a thumbs-up from Cartlidge, who says that it's a wise choice for people with diabetes, as it can contain up to twice the protein yet only half the carbohydrates as regular yogurt. Plus, yogurt provides many health benefits, including better digestive and heart health. Just make sure you're sticking with plain yogurt, as flavored versions are often high in added sugar, which could spike your blood sugar.

5. Hummus with Veggies or Fruit
Hummus is made from chickpeas, a plant-based protein, and legumes like chickpeas offer a unique benefit to people with diabetes. "Research shows that legumes like chickpeas could help with improving insulin sensitivity,". Pair it with vegetables to get additional fiber.

6. Whole-Grain Crackers and Cheese
As a reminder, whole grains contain beneficial amounts of fiber, which helps prevent large spikes in blood sugar.  contain protein, some fat and little to no carbohydrates, but even more importantly, "the protein and fat can also help you feel full for longer, thus reducing cravings for less-healthy foods,"