‘Dear Gurudev, days are endless since you went away” – she wrote…

” when we were together we mostlly played with words and tried to laugh away our best opportunities. Whenever there is the least sign of the nest becoming a jealous rival of the sky .. my mind, like a migrant bird, tries to take … flight to a distant shore.” – he wrote.

She (34) was Victoria Ocampo, an emerging author and the ardent Argentine admirer of Rabindranath Tagore (63), the great Indian poet, playwright, painter.

It was a subtle,platonic affair, born on the banks of the river Plata.They spent together two unforgettable months in 1924 at the villa Miralrio of Victoria with a view of the river,in San Isidro on the outskirts of Buenos Aires. The river Plata was flowing quietly overhearing their light conversation and heavy breathing. The famous Tipa tree in the garden of the house was bending and crouching …listening to the silence of the couple who used to sit under its shade.He called his muse Bijaya ( victoria ).
One third of his 'Purabi' poems are said to be inspired by this Argentine angel.

Here is one such poem from 'Purabi'
” Exotic blossom, I whispered again in your ear
What is your language dear
you smiled and shook your head
and the leaves murmurred instead ”

She wrote an essay  'Tagore on the banks of the river Plata' and a book 'Tagore on the ravines of San Isidro'.

A pair of sunglasses, a book of poems, old gramophone records: These and other items brought back to Santiniketan from Argentina take one to the early 20th century and the enigmatic relationship between Argentine writer and feminist Victoria Ocampo and Noble laureate Rabindranath Tagore.

The much written about relationship flourished across two continents and spanned decades. There were many letters and gifts exchanged between the two, which speak of a deep affection.

When she got the news of Tagore’s death, Ocampo sent a telegram to Tagore’s son which said simply 'Thinking of him' (pensando en el). That’s how the name of Pablo Cesar's much awaited Argentine movie came about. 