Mindfulness is a state of focusing on our sensory stimuli like our breathing or bodily sensations, and through this we can be more present in the moment and that can effectively reduce the distress. 

The benefits of mindfulness based therapy, which have been proven through research, includes stress management, greater relationship satisfaction and decreased symptoms of depression. 

Mindfulness also calms down physical pain as well, which may seem counterintuitive at first, as mindfulness can be about focusing on bodily sensations. A new study is analysing this function of mindfulness and has revealed the underlying mechanism at work in the mind. 

The Brain and Pain

Pain comes in contact with our brain at many levels. Our sympathetic nervous system,  which is responsible for our fight or flight of mechanism, is linked to the way we respond to the perception of pain or stress. 

Kiana Shelton, a clinical social worker with Mindpath Health, states that when we start meditating, we start to calm that system. And when this occurs, we transition into our parasympathetic nervous system, or PNS.

"The PNS is what allows us to rest and relax," Shelton says.

She explains, "The goal is that consistent use of a mindful meditation practice could make one’s brain more tolerant of pain by being able to bring your PNS online faster through a meditation practice."

When one wants to start the mindfulness meditation practice in a psychotherapy session or by looking it up on YouTube, Shelton says, "no effort goes unnoticed by the body." Pike the muscle, the mind will get better and stronger with repetition and practice. 

"Mindfulness meditation is the ultimate exercise," she says.

"When we live with pain, sometimes it is our negative or anticipatory thoughts about the pain that intensify their impact physiologically. I remind clients to never underestimate the power of intention and mindfulness as a determining factor in one's ability to reach a desired goal."

It important to note that mindfulness is not a overall strategy, where one size fits all. 

Don't force upon yourself to excel right from the beginning of a mindfulness practice as this can actually increase the stress. 
 

Sources - Very Well Mind