Amazon Prime’s upcoming The Lord Of The Rings: Rings of Power director J.A. Bayona recently explained how the show took inspiration from Peter Jackson's Oscar winning epic LOTR trilogy and why they may never acknowledge them. The tech company purchased the television rights to Lord of the Rings in 2017 for $250 million and immediately made a 5-season commitment to Rings of Power worth a whopping $1 billion in production costs, making it the most expensive TV series ever made. Based on the Silmarilion, The Rings of Power covers the Second Age set thousands of years before the events of The Hobbit and The Lord Of The Rings, detailing critical events of Middle Earth such as the Fall of Numenor, forging of the rings of power, the Last Alliance, the destruction of the Two Trees of Valinor etc.

During a recent interview with SFX magazine, director J.A Bayona said “We all love what Peter Jackson did and at the very beginning, we thought about establishing some kind of a bridge between the show and the movies. But then, as you realise the complexity of each world, you get invested in your own story. Then, unconsciously, you start to create something that has its own life. The bar was set very high, and I’m glad that Amazon had the ambition of going there – I tried to at least match what Peter Jackson did – but the more we were working with the characters and the story, the more we were unconsciously.” disconnecting from the movies.

Co-showrunner J.D. Payne added that one of the show's focuses would be "the rise and the fall of Sauron," teasing The Rings of Power to be "huge Tolkienien multi-epic." Additionally, the upcoming series' full length trailer debuted at the SCC, offering fans a glimpse at Sauron’s ability to shape shift with extended looks at Galadriel, Miriel and the cameo of a demonic Balrog much like the one from Fellowship of the Ring . "The Second Age is so enormously vast that anything could happen," McKay concluded. The Lord Of The Rings: Rings of Power debuts on Amazon Prime on September 2 of this fall.  