Chelsea women face Manchester City women in the FA League cup Final, also known as Continental tyres cup or Conti Cup. Chelsea have won it in the previous 2 occasions consecutively. Chelsea beat  Manchester United in the semi finals (3-1) and City overcame Spurs 3-0 to reach the final. Tickets for the final at Cherry Red Records stadium, Wimbledon have already been sold out. 


2022 Final 


Chelsea joined the campaign from the quarter final stage as they were competing in the UEFA Champions league. They beat WestHam in the first match 4-2. Emma Hayes' side haven't lost a game since December in the Champions League. In the last match, they thrashed Leicester City 7-0 too. 


They have been having an incredible time under "FIFA Manager of the year 2021" winner Emma since 2012. Chelsea's present team is being hailed as the best women's team ever. They have won the Women's Super League 4 times, FA cup 3 times and Conti cup 2 times. She has transformed the team into an attacking force, which moves up fluently and scores goals with creativity. Australian star striker, who also won best FIFA player award is at the attack. But she is not in her best form. Pernille Harder of Chelsea is amongst the four top scorers in the tournament with 4 goals. Angela Addison - Spurs, Khadija Shaw - City and Lauren Hemp - City are the others. 


Chelsea beat Manchester City on Feb 6, 1-0, when they met last time. They have previously played 24 times, Chelsea winning 9 of them, 8 draws and 7 going in favor of Manchester City. But, it is the first time they meet in a final. 


Gareth Taylor managed City also using attacking football, 4-3-3, using record English goal scorer Ellen White (Matches 112-55 goals) and young Jessica Park as main weapons. 


Conti Cup

The League Cup was introduced for women in 2011. Arsenal have played 8 finals and won it 5 times being the most successful in the championship. City have played 4 finals before , and became champions 3 times. 23 teams took part in this year's championship.