Ben Simmons has not played basketball during the 2021-2022 NBA season. Simmons infamously struggled in the Philadelphia 76ers’ second round playoff loss to the Atlanta Hawks last year, and then requested a trade in the offseason. The Sixers refused to trade their All-Star forward for anything less than a superstar, and Simmons responding by holding out of training camp by citing mental health issues. Philly eventually got its wish at the trade deadline when James Harden forced his way out of Brooklyn, but we still haven’t seen Simmons in the Nets uniform.

Simmons’ season debut is apparently going to happen in middle of the NBA playoffs. Simmons is planning to return between Game 4 and Game 6 as the No. 7 seed Nets prepare to take on the No. 2 seed Boston Celtics, according to NBA insider Shams Charania.

Nets leadership says it isn’t counting on Simmons to return. Head coach Steve Nash said “There’s a chance Ben comes back; there’s a chance he doesn’t come back.” Meanwhile, Kevin Durant told reporters he’s not expecting Simmons to play because he doesn’t want to put any pressure on him.

Simmons has been battling a back injury since he was traded to Brooklyn. The idea of Simmons playing his first game in 10 months with the Nets potentially facing elimination seems like an awfully sticky scenario. Here are a few reasons why a Simmons return feels like a dicey situation for both himself and the Nets

Simmons hasn’t started playing 5-on-5 yet

Hours before Charania reported Simmons’ targeted return date, ESPN’s Brian Windhorst said there was optimism the 25-year-old forward could play in the playoffs. At the same time, Windhorst said Simmons has not started playing five-on-five yet. That seems like an issue.

Ben Simmons would be joining a brand new team at the most intense time

What’s more difficult than making your season debut in the NBA playoffs after being out for 10 months? Let’s go with this: making your season debut in the NBA playoffs for a brand new team after being out for 10 months.

Read more
https://www.sbnation.com/platform/amp/nba/2022/4/14/23025615/ben-simmons-playoff-return-nets-vs-celtics-timetable-injury-explained