By BestMediaInfo Bureau 

In the Indian market customers don’t look for cheap but value for money products, as per Kaushik Mukherjee, Co-Founder and COO, SUGAR Cosmetics. Celebrating its seventh anniversary, the brand has hands-on experience of the challenges of setting up a D2C brand in India, including standing up against globally renowned names like Hindustan Unilever, Procter and Gamble and Loreal for a market share and then finally expanding as an omnichannel brand.

While the journey wasn’t easy, the ride was certainly worthwhile, as per Mukherjee.

Mukherjee said, “India is not a market where customers necessarily look for the cheapest products, but rather look for value products. Hence, instead of trying to compete on prices, which is very tough, we decided to build value for money products and that's what we have kept harping on.”

When we launched SUGAR Cosmetics in 2017, we were a very small scale brand and the entire company turnover was Rs 18 crore in FY18. But today we have grown manifold to sell approximately 50 crore of products in a month,” said Mukherjee.

As per Mukherjee the success of the brand is primarily attributable to SUGAR’s audience. “They have continued to choose us time and again, especially in the times when consumers are constantly switching between brands owing to premium prices and the novelty factor,” he added.

When asked about how the founders came up with the name ‘SUGAR’ in the first place, Mukherjee said, “We had shortlisted a few names for the brand- Stoked, Fabulicious, Pepper Cosmetics and SUGAR Cosmetics, and ran a poll with the names. One of the things that stood out for Sugar was that everybody somehow felt that they had heard the name somewhere and it just didn't seem like a new brand to them. It resonated very strongly with our young audience and since we were partially data-backed, we decided to name it SUGAR Cosmetics.”

Read the full story:- https://bestmediainfo.com/2022/08/indians-don-t-look-for-the-cheapest-but-the-best-value-products-as-per-sugar-s-kaushik-mukherjee