Good news for coffee drinkers emerged earlier this year, with studies reporting that drinking coffee is linked to a lower risk of mortality and that moderate daily coffee drinking may reduce kidney injury risk by 23%.
However, historically, more than 75% of medical professionals have advised patientsTrusted Source with cardiovascular disease to avoid coffee. Recent observational studiesTrusted Source challenged this misconception by discussing the safety and beneficial effects of caffeine consumption concerning arrhythmia and cardiovascular disease.
Little information was available on the impact of different types of coffee on heart health. This prompted researchers at the Baker Heart and Diabetes Research Institute in Melbourne, Australia, to conduct a large observational study that would provide some insights into the role of caffeine on cardiovascular outcomes by comparing the impact of decaffeinated and caffeinated coffee.
The newly published findings indicate that instant, ground, and decaffeinated coffee, particularly at 2–3 cups a day, is linked to a lower risk of cardiovascular disease and death, and caffeinated coffee significantly reduces the risk of arrhythmia.
Coffee and cardiovascular disease ; 
Between January 1, 2006, and December 31, 2010, the study recruited participants from the UK Biobank ages 40 to 69.
The study included 449,563 participants who were not diagnosed with cardiovascular problems at enrollment. The participants had a median age of 58, and 55.3% were females.
The researchers asked the participants to self-report how many cups of coffee they drank each day and the type of coffee they usually drank via a touchscreen questionnaire. The different coffee types, in order of popularity, were:
1 instant coffee (44.1% of participants)
2 ground coffee (18.4%)
3 decaffeinated coffee (15.2%)
22.4% of the study population did not drink coffee and served as the comparator group. For each type of coffee, the researchers divided the study participants into 6 categories, depending on daily intake: 0, <1, 1, 2-3, 4-5, and >5 cups/day.
Read more - https://www.medicalnewstoday.com/articles/coffee-drinking-linked-to-longevity-lower-risk-of-cardiovascular-disease#Coffee-and-cardiovascular-disease