Here are some common healthy habits that are considered toxic! 

Having other crushes-Being attracted to someone and finding someone attractive are two different things. Moreover, people do change and evolve and of course, they find other people attractive too. Blaming them or shaming them for having crushes will only destroy the relationships by bringing in a lot of insecurity and trust issues.

Not having common friends- Many shows especially like F.R.I.E.N.D.S have romanticised the idea of having common friends for the partners. This isn’t always practical and it is always good to have a separate group of friends which promotes individuality as a whole. The only point is to be civil with partners and friends.
 
Not having an individual space in a relationship- codependency isn’t always healthy. You need your own space because you are not the shadow of your partner and be proud of your own identity. Go to shows or dinners or even travel alone so that you are fine without them. This only makes the relationship easier and stronger. Moreover, understand that support and dependency are two different things.

Having privacy-of course there isn't a rule that you should share everything including your bank details and passwords with your partner. This isn’t an issue of trust but it's about privacy. Your finances are yours and shouldn't be owned by anyone else you can surely give money or buy things together but full transparency is a whole another thing. Don’t do it if you don’t want it. It's absolutely fine.

Leaving things unresolved- Taking time and leaving things unresolved is normal and it also depe ds on the situation. People aren’t always compatible and sometimes people cant agree on certain things and these differences are okay. You needn’t bring them your way instead give them space. 

Ending it- Taking a break or ending a relationship is healthy. Sometimes it's not even anyone's fault it might be the circumstances or your mental health. Nothing is more important than your peace.