Melbourne's new-found love affair with Perth continued as they posted a 74-point AFL win over West Coast at Perth Stadium.

The Demons kicked six goals to one in the opening term of Sunday's match to set up the 16.16 (112) to 5.8 (38) victory in front of 27,488 fans.

The result marked Melbourne's 16th straight win, with the run including last year's grand final triumph over the Western Bulldogs and the 83-point preliminary final demolition of Geelong, both at Perth Stadium.

Perth had previously been a graveyard for the Demons, with Melbourne losing 17 straight matches at Subiaco Oval between 2004-2016.

But the defending premiers have now won four straight games in Perth, with their latest win keeping them at the top of the ladder with a perfect 9-0 record.

Sunday's result was soured, however, by a hamstring injury to midfielder James Harmes, who limped off in the final quarter.

Harmes' replacement Kade Chandler is facing suspension for his pin-the-arms tackle that resulted in Luke Foley's head being slammed to the turf.

West Coast forward Liam Ryan is almost certain to be suspended for a bump to the head of Melbourne young gun Jake Bowey.

Although Bowey was able to play on, the high nature of the hit and the fact Ryan ran past the ball to deliver the bump will count against him.

Ryan was subbed out in the final term with a hamstring injury.

Clayton Oliver (28 disposals, seven clearances) and Christian Petracca (28 disposals, two goals) cleaned up in the middle, Andrew Brayshaw (24 possessions) provided plenty of rebound from defence, while Tom McDonald (four goals), Kysaiah Pickett (three), and Bayley Fritsch (three) cashed in up forward.

Max Gawn and Luke Jackson dominated in the ruck.

Eagles midfielder Tim Kelly battled hard to win 32 disposals and five clearances, but West Coast's on-ball brigade was overwhelmed.

The Eagles started the match without 11 of their best 22 players after Josh Kennedy (sore knee) was a late withdrawal, joining the likes of Nic Naitanui, Luke Shuey, Elliot Yeo, Andrew Gaff, Oscar Allen, Dom Sheed, Willie Rioli and Shannon Hurn on the sidelines.