The UK government has been accused by the opposition party of dragging its feet over sanctions on Russian oligarchs who have strong business links in the country. The opposition Labour party claims the ruling Conservative party is doing so to shield their Russian donors.  

Even though the country took prompt steps to freeze assets of some Russian banks and two oligarchs after Russia invaded Ukraine, the country’s government has been somewhat lenient on some Russian billionaires who own expensive real estate and other assets in the UK. 

Anti-corruption non-profit Transparency International, UK, says Russians accused of financial crime or with close links with the Kremlin have property worth at least $2 billion in the UK. Some areas in London are known as “Londongrad” where Russian oligarchs have been enjoying a life of luxury for decades. Some critics also call the city the “London Laundromat” where Putin’s crony oligarchs stash their dirty money for clean-up. 

Many of the EU countries and the US have already imposed sanctions on these multibillionaires, but the British government has been dilly-dallying over the decision. For instance, Victor Zolotov, one of the richest in Russia in the real estate sector, features in the US and UK sanction list, but not in the UK list. Roman Abramovich, the owner of Chelsea, a top football club of Britain, is a prominent oligarch who denies his link with Putin. The UK government also said there was not enough “solid legal evidence” to establish the link. But under public pressure, Abramovich decided to sell Chelsea and donate the money to victims of war in Ukraine.
 
On Thursday, Britain decided to sanction two more Russian tycoons—industrialist Alisher Usmanov and Igor Shuvalov, a former aide and minister in Putin’s cabinet. Usmanov, worth $18.4 billion deals in metals and telecom and owns and sponsors two football clubs, Arsenal and Everton. Shuvalov is chairman of Russian bank VEB. 

The UK government has now decided to amend its Economic Crime Bill to impose sanctions on more oligarchs and freeze their assets in Britain. 

READ MORE:

 https://www.reuters.com/world/uk-unable-prove-case-sanctions-against-russian-oligarchs-like-abramovich-times-2022-03-03/

https://time.com/6153983/uk-russia-oligarchs/

https://www.theguardian.com/politics/2022/mar/04/uk-to-speed-up-sanctions-on-russian-oligarchs-by-copying-allies-decisions