NEW DELHI: Should schools be reopened now that Covid-19 cases are on the decline in the city? Most public health experts, child specialists and even some parents think they should. Maharashtra, which reported 40,000-45,000 cases daily over the past week, has allowed schools to reopen. The Haryana education minister has also hinted at reopening schools in a phased manner though a final decision is yet to be taken.


Sources said Delhi government, too, has deliberated over the matter but is yet to take a call. Deputy CM 

Manish Sisodia

, who also handles the education portfolio, recently said 100% vaccination of students will help the government shift from the online to offline mode.


“Now that cases are declining considerably and most of the students in higher classes have been inoculated, a proposal will be placed before 

Delhi Disaster Management Authority

 (DDMA) for reopening of schools,” Sisodia said on Saturday.

Stating that over 60% of the eligible students have been vaccinated, Action Committee, an association of private schools, has written to the minister in this regard.


Dr Chandrakant Lahariya, an epidemiologist and public policy specialist, said children have developed infection at nearly a similar rate as adults in the current wave. However, he added, the rate of hospitalisation in the 0-17 age group is very low compared to adults.


“The susceptibility of healthy children to severe disease has remained low and not changed with emergence of new variants,” he added.

A report published by the 

European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control

 in July, when the Delta variant of SARS-CoV2 was widespread globally, had stated the benefits of keeping schools open far outweighed the risks posed by disease transmission in children, especially because data suggested that school-going children were less likely to develop severe symptoms even if they got the disease. “...the decision to close schools to control the pandemic should be used as a last resort,” it said.


Ashok Agarwal, a lawyer and public health activist, said keeping schools shut was wrong. “Governments don’t want to take risks or make arrangements to ensure continuation of academic activities with adherence to Covid protocols,” he said.