The Snow Lion and the Dragon: Tibet-China Relations continues...

Manchu troops had moved into Tibet on four occasions during the 18th Century, each time at the request of the Tibetans themselves, invoking their Choe-yon relationship. The last time was to repel the first Gorkha invasion, and thrice earlier, in 1717, 1728 and 1751 CE, to restore civil order. In 1790 CE when the Gorkhas of Nepal invaded Tibet with about 4,000 troops, captured southern Tibet and pillaged Lhasa, the Tibetan Government again appealed to the Chinese court for help. In 1792 CE the Manchu Qianlong Emperor of China sent an army, variously reported as 9,000 or 17,000. After some desperate fighting, this army, which comprised both Sichuan Chinese and Amdoa Tibetans, overcame the Nepalis and invaded Nepal via Kirong, dictating terms to the Gorkha king at Nayakot, about 40 km from Kathmandu. 

But when the Gorkhas again went to war with Tibet in 1854-55 CE (The Second Gorkha War), the Manchus were not in a position to dispute Tibet, but a force of Mongols came to support the Tibetans. In spite of some reverses in the battles of the campaign, the Gorkhas eventually prevailed against the Tibeto-Mongol force. The peace treaty agreed upon at that time between the Tibetans and the Nepalese made the Nepali Gorkha Raja a ‘Protector’ of Tibet, indicating a clear Tibetan foreign policy with regard to military threats from outside Tibet. This particular attitude had, in fact, been commented upon by the Manchu emperor after the First Gorkha War, as part of the record written by him and recorded on a stone slab below the Potala. If this matter be considered, it will be seen that the people of Ü, abandoning military pursuits, devote themselves solely to literature. 

Thus they have become a like a body bereft of vigour. This is unfitting. If a people abandon military pursuits and make literature their chief object, they become unable to safeguard their former position. This should be known. 

To be continued....