Friendships change over time. As people and their circumstances change, small disagreements and misunderstandings arise. Ultimately, friends who considered themselves close come to the realization that their paths have diverged. And the friendship could end with a bang or a whimper.

Conflicts and disagreements are inevitable in relationships. The ubiquitous advice from experts and laypeople alike when it comes to addressing conflict is to “talk it over” — or, as academics put it, “engage in a constructive discussion.”

This advice is generally directed at couples, however, in a recent book titled How to Break Up with Your Friends, life coach Erin Falconer encourages her readers to have frank and open conversations when things go “off the rails” with their friends.

Passive responses
But what does the research show? Research on friendship shows that when conflicts and disagreements arise, the most common response is to “do nothing.”

Psychologist Cheryl Harasymchuk and I conducted research where we presented participants with a scenario in which they were asked to imagine being dissatisfied in a romantic relationship and then responding in four different ways. These were: a positive, active response, where they engaged in a discussion of the issue; a positive, passive response, where they did not raise the issue but stood by and hoped that things would improve; a negative, passive response, which involved withdrawing and ignoring or neglecting the person; or, an active, negative response that saw them ending or threatening to end the relationship. Next, they were asked to predict how the other person would react.

We found that people expected that their friend would reciprocate a passive response, but not an active response. However, in the context of a romantic relationship, people expected that if they responded in an active manner, their partner would do the same.

Read more - https://theconversation.com/friendships-end-for-many-reasons-including-differences-exposed-by-the-covid-19-pandemic-182635