By Shekhar Iyer

There is no doubt that outrage over the rollout of a new scheme to recruit soldiers to help build a younger, fitter defence force is fuelled by a very bitter opposition to Prime Minister Narendra Modi and the BJP. Facts may no longer be sacred when the political stakes are high in the new high-decibel battle.

The opposition is not concerned about whether the scheme called "Agnipath'' will help the Armed Forces to reduce the flab and help overcome problems that are faced because of the deployment of ageing men in dangerous missions.

Modi's critics are already looking askance at the growing evidence pointing toward a possible conspiracy behind the acts of violence in different places. They are unwilling to consider any other dimension of the scheme like tackling regional security challenges and more money becoming available for speedier modernisation of the Armed Forces and their weapons and equipment.

Most importantly, they overlook the possibility of the youths between 17 and 21 using their formative years in profitably acquiring skills under rigorous Army training – instead of wallowing in dangerous pursuits like drug abuse and waiting for a life to happen.

True, the Agnipath scheme is a pan-India short-term service youth recruitment scheme for the Armed Forces launched to reduce the average age of the Army. Those inducted into the service will be called 'Agniveers' and will be employed for four years where rigorous military training will be imparted to them. The starting annual package will be Rs 4.76 lakh, which can be increased to 6.92 lakh by the end of the service.

Soldiers aspiring to be entrepreneurs will receive a financial package and bank loan scheme after serving in the army for four years. Those desiring to pursue higher education will be given a certificate equivalent to the Class 12 certificate and a bridging course and the ones who wish to obtain jobs will be given priority in Central Armed Police Forces (CAPFs) and the state police. Several avenues will also be opened for them in other sectors.

Read the full story here:- https://www.newsdrum.in/columns/agnipath-scheme-who-is-playing-with-fire-on-agnipath-government-or-opposition-47007.html