Queen Elizabeth owned all of the dolphins and swans in England. And Her Majesty's menagerie didn't stop there.
Queen Elizabeth was a well-known animal lover. Over 80 years, the queen had owned an estimated 30 corgis, each just as special as the last. But her royal menagerie didn’t stop at tiny dogs.
In 1968, the Queen became the proud owner of two sloths following a state visit to Brazil. The pair of adorable creatures, however, never made it to the palace and instead were given to the London Zoo, along with a plethora of other exotic animals given to the Queen by world leaders over the years including jaguars, two black beavers from Canada, and a 7-year-old bull elephant named Jumbo who arrived in the U.K. from Cameroon in 1972.
The Queen’s power didn’t stop at land’s end. In fact, thanks to a rule that dates back to the 1300s, Her Majesty technically owned all the sturgeons, whales, and dolphins in the waters around the U.K.
Lillibet was a well-decorated horsewoman. Her first horse, a Shetland called Peggy, was given to her by her grandfather, King George V, when she was 4 years old. At any given time, the Queen had around 30 horses in training for various events.
Like all the whales in British waters, the queen also technically co-owned all unmarked mute swans in certain stretches of the Thames and its surrounding tributaries.
The royal family took ownership of the swans very seriously. For more than 700 years, all swan-related royal duties were handled by the Keeper of the Swans. Every year, the Queen and her swan posse counted each and every swan in the river as part of a census program that later worked as more of a conservation and education program than actual ownership. During the annual "Swan Upping," in which the swans swimming in the River Thames were caught, ringed, and set free again.
The fond Lillibet shared her summer home, Balmoral, with a small colony of bats that reside in the main hall of the castle. The Queen allegedly refused to let staff meddle with the bats, “despite the extra cleaning work that they generate.”
What a Queen! 