Eid Mubarak to each one of you ✨️❤️ 

I hope you have had your sumptuous meal and have been enjoying the evening with your family and your friends. So let me bring to you some interesting traditions that happen around the world on Eid. 

Eid ul Fitr which means a festival to breaks one's fast, and it remarks the end of the holy month of Ramadan and millions of Muslims wait for the moonlighting to celebrate the end of their fasting period. 

The morning prayers and proces of ghusl, zakat al fitr and visiting each other is a common practice across the world. There are some countries that practice some unique tradition and customs, so let's check that out. 

Turkey 

In Turkey Eid ul Fitr is known as Ramazan Bayrami which means Ramadan festival or Seker Bayrami which means festival of sweets. They also practice of wearing new cloths and greeting every member they meet. They also kiss the right hand while placing it on one's forehead to greet the elders that they meet as they convey their Eid wishes. The children also needs to go from door to door and wish their neighbours a d they would be treated to traditional sweets like Baklava, candy or a small amount of money. 

Indonesia  

It is locally known as Lebaran in Indonesia, similarly like how it is celebrated in other Muslim nations they also celebrate it with prayer, gatherings, and family reunions. They also have a tradition is Mudik (homecoming) where those who left the towns to work in big cities come back during Eid to celebrate them with their loved ones. They also perform a ritual called as the Halal Bihalal that done during or after Eid which includes seeking forgiveness from everyone. 

Malaysia 

People in Malaysia decorate their homes with oil lamps that's known as Pelita and cook their tradition foods for Eid which includes rice dumplings and Rendang, which js a popular meat dish that's prepared to honour the guests in South East Asian countries. During Eid its like open houses where everyone is welcomed into a home irrespective of their religion, economic status or caste.