Football world returns to international ties to decide who plays at Qatar from 21 Nov in the  22nd edition of FIFA World cup. Even though Brazil were the first team to qualify for the tournament, they are meeting Ecuador at Estadio Rodrigo Paz Delgado in Quito to decide the other teams fate. 

QUALIFIERS

Coach Tite's main headache will be the abundance of talent, who performs exceptionally in leading leagues. It's also time for some experiments in the team. 

Veteran Dani Alves might be back in playing 11, along with Thiago Silva, who hasn't played the previous match against Argentina on 17 Nov. He is feeling better in fitness and excellent form recently at Chelsea. Tite did not include Richarlison and Firmino in his 26 men squad, and super player Neymar Jr is out due to injury. 

ECUADOR CHANCES

Ecuador will be hoping to get a ticket with a good result against Brazil. Currently they are 3rd behind Argentina. They beat Chile and looked strong. They have won 3 out of 5 last matches, drawn 1 and lost 1. Gustavo Alfaro's team have scored more goals in the last 7 matches than any other South American team (17 goals). Experienced Enner Valencia will join with Angel Mena in attack. Currently, the team is ranked 46 in the World. 

LEGACY

Selecao are the only team to have played all editions of the world cup, and never played in the playoffs. Other than 1930, 1966 first round exits, they have always been top expected to win the title. Since their last cup win they have finished 3 times in the quarter final ,once in fourth place (2014). Brazil are the most successful team in the world cup - 73 victories in 109 matches played, 124 goal difference, 237 points, and 18 losses. 


POSSIBILITIES

So far 13 teams have qualified for Qatar World cup - Qatar, Brazil, Argentina, Belgium, Croatia, Denmark, England, France, Germany, Netherlands, Serbia, Spain and Switzerland. Italy and Portugal are 2 prominent teams who failed to qualify and are waiting for play offs. 

After 2006, it's a similar strong side Brazil fans will be expecting to win the 6th title.