Every player have a unique talent, something which makes them different from others, 

INTRODUCTION- 

There are different Centre backs with unique qualities which are desired by different managers. 

Its the mangers duty to choose the ideal players in the staring 11 as per their playing tactics. But its the players duty to show the manager that you are the one he was always looking for,

The various types of center-back playing styles will be explained below so as you can play according to the manager tactics.

THE DIFFERENT PLAYING STYLES ARE -

BUILD UP- 

This type of defenders are mosty used by the managers who preffer possession football over counter attacking football,

These players have good passing technique and range and must be good in tight spaces as they are the back-bone of the teams build-up play which helps to dominate  possession and create more chances. 

They are a plus point to dominate possession, but doing even a silly mistake can cost a lot. 
As they lies deep inside the box and if the defense make any wrong pass or loose the ball near by the box, that will create threat for the goalkeeper.

Eg-  Virgil van Dijik,  Matthijs de Light 

THE EXTRA-FRONT MAN- 

These are the type of defenders who loves to join the attack, apart from their basic role of defending these are the Center Backs who joins the attack to increase the number of man in a particular attack. 

They make runs up the field when needed, as defenders are superior in air, they joins attacks in the set-pieces to convert the attempt into a goal. 

Mostly in corners these center backs are positioned inside the opponents-box, they stay little bit longer up the field and chase back when needed.

Eg- Sergio Ramos, Gerard Pique 

THE DESTROYER-

A Strong and tough defender who stops the  opponent attacks through hard tackling and pressing. 

They are careless of their positioning and press the opponents very quickly while doing high pressing and harsh tackling. These center-backs are most prone of getting cards. Hence, mangers use them wisely.

Eg- PEPE, Carles Puyol 

Thankyou ⚽