Players now have returned to their home countries to prepare for Nations league competition. The biennial tournament founded in 2018 will feature 55 national teams across Europe playing each other in a home and away format league, a total of 168 matches. France are the defending champions and Portugal won the first edition. The first match will be played between Poland and Wales. Teams will be taking this competition as a preparation for the FIFA World Cup.

Teams are divided into 4 leagues, as per their ranking-League A, League B, League C and League D. League A, League B, League C consists of 16 teams each and League D 7 teams. Teams are divided into Group A1, Group A2, Group A3 and Group A4 in League and similarly in other leagues too. League D consists of only 2 groups- Group D1(4teams) Group D2 (3 teams). Winners in each group will be promoted to higher leagues (from League B to League A) and last positioned teams will get relegated to lower leagues. In 2020, Ukraine, Sweden, Bosnia and Herzegovina and Iceland were relegated while Wales, Austria, Czech Republic and Hungary were promoted to League A. France, Spain, Italy, Belgium, Portugal, Netherlands, Denmark, Germany, England, Poland, Switzerland, Croatia (as per their rankings) are the other teams in League A. 

Leagues A, B and C in the UEFA Nations League are allocated one of the three remaining UEFA Euro 2024 places. Four teams from each of these leagues who have not already qualified for the European Championship finals will compete in the play-offs of their league, which will be played in March 2024.  The first round of the World Cup qualification consists of ten groups. The winner of each group will directly qualify for the World Cup. Then, the second round will be contested by the ten group runners-up, plus the best two Nations League group winners that finished outside the top two of their qualifying group. The play-offs will be split into three play-off paths, played in two semi-finals and the final, from which an additional three teams will also qualify.