France is going to the polls five days from now. The first round will be held on Sunday. So far, the incumbent Emmanuel Macron has had a significant lead. The surveys, the media, and the electorate have all predicted an easy victory for the president.

But the race is tightening now between the two frontrunners for the April 24 runoff as the far-right leader Marine Le Pen is staging a comeback in polls as her presidential campaign gains momentum, Le Pen has notched the highest ever score for herself in the recent opinion polls that accounted of a likely runoff between her and Emmanuel Macron where she has captured 48.5% of voters' intentions.

It is the highest ever score, she has ever secured. The study from April 1-4 puts Macrons' rating at 51.5%. According to Harris Interactive Poll, this is the first time that the two finalists of the presidential election are tested so close.

In 2017, Macron won the runoff vote against Le Pen with 66%. Another poll by the Opinionway-Kéa Partnership also forecasts a narrowing 53 to 47% margin of victory for Macron.

In the past months, Macron's victory has been considered almost a foregone conclusion with all the surveys and polls predicting a clear victory for the incumbent and even forecasting a win with a margin of the era. But his lead has dwindled substantially as he entered the campaign late, apparently drawn away by the Ukraine crisis & has focused on rather despised economic reforms including raising the retirement age.

On the other hand, Le Pen focused on the declining purchasing power of middle & lower class voters. Another major issue in the country is pension reforms, Macron plans to increase the legal age at which one gets a full pension from 62 to 65 but Le Pen wants to keep the 62 years threshold.

So who is it going to be? Well, this race is too close to call as the French electorate is highly polarised. According to reports, 40% of voters are still undecided which leaves a lot of room for an electoral surprise. The game is still on!