India’s first bullet train from Mumbai to Ahmedabad. The extension of a suburban railway. A national freight corridor. 
These multibillion dollar new projects will rip through a lush land that was once called the “fruit basket” of Gujarat and Maharashtra, the last island of green between the two states, as the laws that once protected a region legally classified an “ecologically fragile area”in 1991 have been—and continue to be—set aside.
This is Dahanu, an 868-km swathe of land on the Konkan coast, where the lives and livelihoods of fisherfolk, farmers in fruit orchards and tribal communities have already been crippled over the last 26 years by a power plant on the edge of what was once an area restricted to industries.
About the size of Coimbatore, 140 km northwest of Mumbai, Adivasi-dominated Dahanu is a splash of green between the grey industrial areas of south Gujarat and north Maharashtra: 36% of Dahanu is forest, but that is set to change. 
Nearly 22,000 mangroves and 1,500 other trees will be cut (of more than 80,000 in total) for the Rs. 1.08 lakh crore ($13.56 billion) Mumbai-Ahmedabad bullet train. It was cleared in 2019 by the union ministry of environment and forests amidst controversy and received its final clearance in July 2022.
The trees cut are meant to be compensated by afforestation elsewhere, a policy called  compensatory afforestation that the government of Prime Minister Narendra Modi introduced in 2018 to speed up the removal of forests for industry and infrastructure. That policy has repeatedly been criticised because of its failures (here, here and here). 
The other major railway lines set to cut through Dahanu’s forests and orchards are: the Rs 54,777 crore Virar-Dahanu railway, the extension of a Mumbai suburban rail line; and the Rs 81,000 crore Delhi-Mumbai industrial freight corridor.
The brief for public consultation about the suburban rail project lists the environmental impacts that must be monitored, including air and water quality in the forest from toxic construction emissions, noise and vibration levels of heavy machinery and construction, and impact on flora and fauna. 
Read more - https://article-14.com/post/laws-are-altered-as-bullet-freight-trains-set-to-rip-through-maharashtra-s-fruit-basket--6318260d0d548