Leaders of the world’s seven advanced economies have once again pledged economic support for Africa and other developing countries. But the realisation of these commitments depends on political developments in the Group of Seven (G7) countries, specifically the United States, the outcome of Russia’s war with Ukraine, and whether Russian president Vladimir Putin retains his grip on power.

How each of these political developments will pan out is difficult to tell. But each has an important bearing on the decisions African leaders must make in terms of which power blocs, if any, they align with.

The G7 is an informal group of advanced democracies that has been meeting annually since 1975. The impetus then was a global recession caused by an energy crisis. There was also the desire among the US, UK, Germany and France to have Japan as full partner in meeting that crisis. Italy and Canada were quickly added. The president of the European Commission also attends.

Topping this year’s agenda were the many pressing economic issues arising from war in Ukraine, notably the scope and effects of western sanctions against Russia.

US politics was also a backdrop to this year’s summit, amid fears that Donald Trump might return to office in 2024. Trump’s administration was seen as an admirer of Putin and questioned the need for a G7. President Joe Biden is, by contrast, an enthusiastic supporter. But Biden faces domestic political insecurities, raising the prospect of Trump’s return or the election in 2024 of someone with his nationalist outlook.

This was the context for this year’s G7 summit, to which South African president Cyril Ramaphosa and the current chair of the African Union, Senegal’s Macky Sall, were invited to make presentations. So were the leaders of India, Indonesia and Argentina. Each one is a democracy with extensive ties to members of the G7. But they are also what Brookings scholar Bruce Jones describes as “fence sitters” regarding the isolation of Russia.

Read more: https://theconversation.com/how-africans-can-assess-the-value-of-the-latest-g7-summit-186070