In coastal Karnataka, a stronghold of Hindu right-wing groups, such as the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh and the Bajrang Dal, 19-year-old A* has been leading a double life. Neither his Muslim family nor the Hindus in his hometown know of the secret online identity of this civil engineering student. 


“Pata chala toh ammi ghar se nikal degi aur woh toh maar denge,” (My mother will throw me out of the house, and they will beat me up) he told Article 14 in an interview this month. 


When he is not studying, A* spends eight hours daily trawling news reports for violent acts or speeches by Hindutva forces against Muslims and Dalits in Karnataka. The verified information, videos, and photos, carefully culled from the 30 odd Kannada news media he subscribes to, are posted on his Twitter handle, "Hate Watch Karnataka” (HWK) in English.  A wants people across the country to witness how his native state, celebrated as an information-technology powerhous, was now also the epicentre of communal politics down south. 


In the nine months since HWK came into existence, the account, with 7,506 followers when this story was published, has gained prominence among journalists, activists and those allied with Hindu right-wing organisations. For publicising under-the-radar communal violence, Hindutva trolls have threatened HWK with arrest, tagging handles of law enforcement agencies, and accused him of spreading "fake news".


“They call me criminal and anti-national,” A said. “If showing the facts and the rampant hate against the minorities is a crime, then yes, I am a criminal.” 


This conviction sustains A, as he endures a flood of abusive, threatening private messages and replies to his tweets. On other days, he is crippled with anxiety that tweets exposing religious extremism could land him in a similar situation as his friend and Alt News co-founder Mohammed Zubair, who was arrested on 28 June 2020 for allegedly “hurting religious sentiments” over an innocuous tweet from 2018.  

Read more - https://article-14.com/post/with-fact-faith-a-growing-band-of-concerned-citizens-battles-hate-speech-in-india-62ddcc470ff9c