The long wait is over as the Dead Space remake has finally debuted its gameplay trailer showcasing the various new elements introduced while still reminding players of the horrifying nightmare that was the USG Ishimura and its Necromorph infected crew. 
The remake looks absolutely stellar with some new Necromorph models (complete with shinier dismembered limbs), zero gravity gameplay, textures and new character models and voices. 
However, the trailer also is a huge success in recreating the sense of dread, loneliness and chilling sensation that something is always in the room with you as you wander through the blood stained halls and rooms with piles of corpses.
Set in the futuristic year of 2508, the Dead Space world sees humans colonizing other planets using ships called Planet Crackers as Earth’s resources have begun depleting.
Just like the original, the game follows engineer Isaac Clarke, an engineer who comes along with his crew to fix the broken planet cracking ship USG Ishimura and find his girlfriend Nicole Brennan, senior medical officer on the ship who along with various members of the ship has gone missing.
 Blood and death haunt every part of the dark and cursed vessel as Isaac is soon assaulted by grotesque monsters called Necromorphs who have killed almost the entire ship’s population while transforming a big chunk of the crew.
Dead Space has been completely redesigned from scratch in the Frostbite game engine. It now features improved sharper audio, absolutely stunning graphical improvements and new lighting effects that make the game even more terrifying than before. Other changes that will be brought about in the game will be in matters relating to weapons, interface and inventory management adding another layer of perfection to an already near perfect game.
One of the greatest improvements made to the game is bringing back Gunner Wright to voice  Isaac, because in the original Dead Space he was a silent character and only got a voice from Dead Space 2 onwards which was done by Gunner Wright and became as iconic as Troy Baker’s voice as Joel from ‘The Last Of Us’ or Steve Downes’ voice as Master Chief from Halo.