The New Zealand government plans to spend NZ$18 million on becoming the first country to eliminate transmission of the human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) within a decade.

In a draft action plan launched last week, associate health minister Ayesha Verrall set out key measures to increase prevention and testing, improve access to treatment and address stigma.


These are ambitious targets, but the plan fails to take account of the changing pattern of the HIV pandemic. It does not reflect the mounting evidence that Māori, and Māori women in particular, have disproportionately high rates of HIV and are more likely to be diagnosed late.

If Māori women are not identified as a group at increased risk of HIV and progression to AIDS as a result of late diagnosis, the plan’s effectiveness in stemming the spread of HIV infection will be severely limited. This glaring omission could easily derail minister Verrall’s goal and instead exacerbate current HIV disparities.

Since national HIV surveillance was established in Aotearoa New Zealand in 1985, 5,430 people have been diagnosed with the virus and 757 have died of AIDS. The number of people diagnosed with HIV has declined recently (from 195 in 2016 to 122 in 2021), but inequities in health outcomes are deepening.

The pattern of the HIV pandemic globally has changed dramatically with the advent of antiretroviral therapy (ART) more than two decades ago. With timely access to ART, people with HIV can expect to enjoy the same health outcomes as everyone else.

ART has become a key plank in preventing the spread of HIV. But to be effective, ART must be initiated soon after a person becomes infected with the virus. If New Zealand is to achieve elimination of HIV by 2032, ART must be made readily available to everyone and we must remove the barriers caused by stigma, discrimination and racism.

Read more: https://theconversation.com/new-zealands-plan-to-eliminate-hiv-transmission-ignores-deepening-inequities-in-health-outcomes-for-maori-women-187924