Arsenal- The Invincible 2.0 ?
Arsenal had a good summer, where they bought players like Gabriel Jesus, Olyksander Zinchenko,Fabio Vieria and William Saliba who returned from on loan. Mikel Arteta, integrated his side into attacking machines, which saw they win first 4 games on a trot.They stand at top of the table with 12 points. They are surely a contender for the race of Premier League titles, battling top sharks like Manchester City,Liverpool,Chelsea and Manchester United.
We will see which players can play a role, even though it’ll be team effort, there’ll be players who would be looking to make their mark.
Gabriel Jesus
Jesus after growing frustrated for the lack of game-time at Manchester City, he decided to join Arsenal who recently sold Pierre- Aubamyang, and Lacazette to Barcelona and Lyon respectively, were looking for attacking reinforcements. Arsenal jumped on the chance to get the Brazilian to Emirates. He has been an revelation, as he set up the ground running. Jesus scored 2 goals and made 3 assists to his name. He has been a provider as well as scorer for his team.Arsenal did a shrewd business and they got their man, who know can help the Gunners push for the Premier League crown. 
Looking at Jesus Heatmap, we can see where he made all the actions in the form of assists,passes,goals,shots and etc. 
Passing
The Brazilian has made a 90 completed passes, making 30.8 passes per 90.The Brazilian has 1.84 passes, into the penalty box, Which led to him having 3 assists to his name already. In 4 matches the Brazilian has 3 assists.
Looking at his heatmap, we can see where he made most of his touches. His link up play with his teammates is good with 72 percentile.The Brazilian had an attacking output of 89 percentile, he had been a menace for the opposition. He made most touches in the attacking third and in the penalty area with 28.9 and 10.8 touches per 90.
Goal Scoring
Jesus has scored 2 goals in 4 matches, and it looks like he is just warming up.As the Brazilian has scored every 173 minutes.