By BestMediaInfo bureau
Richa Goswami, Chief Customer and Marketing Officer at HSBC, has quit the company. 
Goswami joined HSBC in 2020 as the Global Head of Customer and International, Wealth and Personal Banking. She was promoted to her current role in January 2022. Her last day at HSBC was October 14, 2022. 
She wrote on LinkedIn, “It was Maya Angelou who said that people will forget what you did or what you said but they will never forget how you made them feel. You all made me feel like the luckiest gal in the world…My time at HSBC has been as memorable and powerful as it has been because of you - the graciousness, commitment and common respect are something I’ve counted on numerous times when faced with difficult decisions and situations at work. I’ve always strived to do what’s right for you and the business and I can’t thank you enough for being courageously open-minded and honest with me as we navigated through good and difficult times.”
She further said, “I am not the biggest fan of goodbyes which is why this is Au Revoir. If you could take one thing with you and embrace it wholeheartedly, then know that my time at HSBC was one of the most memorable times in my life and that is thanks to who you are and the part you’ve played in my journey – and for that, I remain forever grateful and proud to have served alongside you.”
Before HSBC, Goswami was the Global Head of Digital at Johnson & Johnson until 2020 and moved out of the healthcare company after a stint of five years and five months.
Goswami was promoted to the position of Global Head of Digital at J&J in June 2019, where she was responsible for shaping and driving the company’s global digital transformation agenda.
Goswami joined J&J in 2014 as Asia Pacific Head of Digital for Consumer Healthcare Businesses, J&J. In January 2018, she was promoted as the Asia Pacific Head of Total Brand Experience. She was promoted to Global Head of Content, Creative Excellence and Digital platforms role in January 2019.
Read more https://bestmediainfo.com/2022/10/richa-goswami-moves-on-from-hsbc