By BestMediaInfo Bureau 
Colors has announced the launch its latest fiction show ‘Sherdil Shergill’ – which brings to the audience the story of Manmeet and Rajkumar, who are poles apart but find themselves tied together by fate.
Determined to make a mark in the male-dominated career of architecture, Manmeet Shergill is a fearless woman who has all her life fought societal norms. Rajkumar Yadav, born with a silver spoon, a comedian by passion, and an architect by education, and has a knack for jugaads and is forced into architecture by his family. As different as chalk and cheese, what happens when the worlds of these two individuals collide, and the adventure ensues? 
Even though their ideologies differ, they are both unequivocally set on fulfilling their dreams. Actors Surbhi Chandna and Dheeraj Dhoopar will be seen essaying the lead roles of Manmeet Shergill and Rajkumar Yadav respectively. 
Produced by Parin Multimedia, 'Sherdil Shergill' premieres on September 26 and will thereafter air every Monday to Friday at 8:30 pm on the channel. 
Manisha Sharma, Chief Content Officer, Hindi Mass Entertainment, Viacom18, said, "Delivering variety content, novel storylines, and inspirational characters, have always been our core focus at Colors. Our latest offering, 'Sherdil Shergill' is about two contrasting personalities, and their determination to fulfil their career ambitions despite societal and parental pressures. The viewers will relate to the characters' trajectories, their professional journeys, and their engrossing love story. We are excited to join hands with Parin Multimedia yet again for a promising new venture." 
'Sherdil Shergill' traces the story of Manmeet Shergill (Surbhi Chandna), who has grown up listening to patriarchal statements - ‘Ladkiyan ghar sajaate hue ache lagte hai, ghar banate hue nahi’. Battling the demons outside of the home is a challenge but standing up to one's own family takes incredible courage. With bravery in abundance, Manmeet is ready to overcome any number of hurdles that come in the way of fulfilling her dreams.
Read more: https://bestmediainfo.com/2022/09/colors-to-launch-its-new-fiction-show-sherdil-shergill-