In recent years, there’s been a growing push to make medical education trans-affirmative in the backdrop of Madras and Kerala High Court judgements. But transforming India’s healthcare system comes with the need for a roadmap towards achieving this goal.

The need to fill in this gap gave way to iHEAR TransCare Med, where collaborators like Sangath, University of Chicago, Bucksbaum Institute for Clinical Excellence and Kasturba Medical College came together to create competencies on trans-affirmative health provision. 

Medical and nursing education in India currently follows a competency-based model which in outcome-based model. Competencies are abilities and attributes that are to be practiced by a health professional in real settings and are essential to effective health care delivery. 

Trans-competencies are the skills and attributes essential to delivering quality health care to transgender and nonbinary patients. Through a participatory and inclusive effort, TransCare MedEd has developed a set of draft trans-affirmative competencies through consultative stakeholder workshops that were conducted in Delhi, Manipal and Bhopal with:

1. Transgender and nonbinary people 
2. Transgender and nonbinary medical students and health professionals 
3. Health professionals who have experience caring for Transgender and nonbinary people 
4. Medical educators 

The TransCare Med Ed National Conference on May 5th and 6th is aimed at disseminating and discussing the trans-affirmative competencies to highlight best practices and build consensus on the way forward for making healthcare trans-affirmative.

The competencies are divided into three categories that will be explored in panel discussions during the conference:

1. Challenges in accessing healthcare: https://www.pixstory.com/story/competencies-on-trans-affirmative-medical-education-challenges-in-accessing-healthcare1651732648/98481 

2. Medical spaces and trans inclusion: https://www.pixstory.com/story/competencies-on-trans-affirmative-medical-education-medical-spaces-and-trans-inclusion1651732811/98482 

3. Current affirmative practices and challenges faced by health professionals: https://www.pixstory.com/story/trans-affirmative-competencies-affirmative-practices-challenges-faced-by-health-providers1651733040/98484

Watch this space for narratives by transgender people navigating healthcare settings, and for thoughts and pathways on the way towards creating access to trans-afiirmative healthcare.