In a rain soaked Quarter final tie at Stamford Bridge, London, Chelsea were beaten by Real Madrid 1-3. Kai Havertz scored again for Chelsea. Benzema is now second behind Robert Lewandowski (12) with 11 goals.


Benzema finished his hat-trick with goals scored in 21',24' and 46' minutes. First goal came from a one-two-one , give and go between Benzema and Vinicius Jr in the left wing. The Brazilian gave an excellent cross into the first post side inside the box, which Benzema placed behind Mendy with a header. Second goal again was with a header, this time Modric providing the assist from the right wing half space channel. Benzema placed his header to the right bottom corner beyond Mendy's reach. Chelsea fans were stunned from the two successive blows from the visitors. Chelsea replied with a Havertz goal in the 40th minute. Jorginho sent a brilliant hanging ball into the Real Madrid penalty area, which Havertz headed home. Courtois got a hand to the low header, but couldn't keep it out. 


Result of the match was decided by a big mistake from Senegal goalkeeper of Chelsea, Mendy. A simple clearance ball from Real Madrid came to Chelsea half, which Mendy claimed comfortably with foot, but his casual pass to Rudiger was pressed and retrieved easily by Benzema, who put it inside the vacant Chelsea goal. 


It was not an all Madrid show at Stamford Bridge though. Chelsea kept on pushing to decrease the deficit. Former Chelsea goalkeeper made a stunning save to deny Chelsea captain Azpilicueta a goal. Lukaku came in as substitute in the 64th minute and it didn't took too much time for his chance to come. But, Lukaku missed a quality chance, when his header went over the crossbar with the Madrid keeper well beaten. 


It looks like defending champion Chelsea's chances in the Champions League are over as they travel to Madrid next Tuesday for the second leg match. This was Chelsea's first consecutive 3+ goal conceded game after 2012. Tuchel said in the post match interview "it was the worst first half play from Chelsea" he has ever seen that caused the loss. 