Sunil Chhetri is on a roll with the national jersey. As always. In the two matches in the Asian Cup qualifiers in Kolkata so far, Chhetri scored three goals, thus taking his tally of international goals to 83. The one against Afghanistan came barely five minutes before the final whistle when the match was still goalless and India needed three points desperately. It was a brilliant free-kick that left the Afghanistan goalkeeper completely stranded.
With 83 goals, Chhetri now stands sixth in the list of all-time top scorers in international football. In the fifth place is the Hungarian legend of the 1950s, Ferenc Puskas, with 84 goals. It means, the India versus Hong Kong match a couple of days later, which is also the last match of the Kolkata qualifiers, may see Chhetri touching Puskas’s record or even overtaking it. Well, this is no attempt to compare Chhetri with Pusakas – the Hungarian was a world beater; he scored his 84 goals in 85 matches. Chhetri, on the other hand, has already played 128 matches. But statistics do interest people and the India-Hong Kong match could surely may turn out an event to remember.
Back to the qualifiers, with six points from two matches, India have almost confirmed their place in the final rounds next year. As per the rules of the qualifiers, while the winners of the six groups will make the final rounds, the best five runners-up teams will also sail through. Now, even if India surrender full points against Hong Kong, which is highly  unlikely, the hosts should have no problem in figuring among the best five runners-up teams. But that would definitely be considered an inglorious entry. Igor Stimac’s boys will do everything to avoid that. However, India’s biggest problem is goal scoring. Out of the four goals India scored so far in the qualifiers, three came from Chhetri, something that is not a good sign. Even the Indian fans have started believing that none other than Chhetri in this India team has the ability to strike. Stimac himself sounded frustrated when he said others will have to learn scoring.