Ukraine’s President Volodymyr Zelensky has created the International Legion of Defense of Ukraine, comprising foreign fighters who have joined the resistance against Russian occupants. By early March 16,000 veteran fighters from the US, its ally countries and even post-Soviet states like Georgia and Belarus joined the International Legion, claims the Ukrainian President. 

These fighters, equipped with sophisticated US and NATO weaponry, and thoroughly trained in guerrilla warfare techniques have upset Russia’s all military plans to capture Ukraine. The planned short campaign, termed as a “special military operation”, has stretched to nearly a month causing a huge number of casualties and mounting costs. Russian intelligence had completely underestimated Ukrainian resistance and in the beginning, Russia deployed poorly trained conscripts, tricked to step into the theatre of war.

Now it seems that the official strength of 900,000 of the Russian army waiting in the wings is kind of a myth. That’s why Russia is also sourcing mercenaries from Syria, Chechnya and Wagner Group, the infamous Russian military contractors, that operate in central Africa. Following in the footsteps of Zelensky, Russia’s Putin has also called for volunteers to fight on their behalf. 

Apparently, 3000 Syrian fighters have already arrived in Ukraine who can be paid up to $3000 a month, 50 times what they get paid in Syria. One of the reasons for hiring them is that they are dirt cheap and Russia doesn’t have much responsibility if they die on the battlefield. Some Syrian troops have already gained experience of fighting in Donbass, separatist controlled parts in eastern Ukraine for years. Also, it’s easier for Putin to get deployment from Syria where he has consistently supported the controversial President Bashar al-Assad to fight rebel fighters through military and financial aid. Assad is too happy to pay back Putin with all kinds of help. 

But according to US defence analysts, deployment of hired mercenaries shows Russia’s desperation after nearly 7000 Russian soldiers, including four generals, lost their lives in the battlefield. 

READ MORE:

https://foreignpolicy.com/2022/03/15/syrian-fighters-ukraine-russia-war/

https://www.theguardian.com/world/2022/mar/11/putin-approves-russian-use-of-middle-east-fighters-against-ukraine

https://people.com/politics/russia-brings-in-middle-east-fighters-ukraine-invasion/