This week, McDonald’s announced its final exit from Russia, making it one of almost 1,000 western companies that have partly, or entirely, ceased operations in Russia. They did so, not just to comply with sanctions, but as a voluntary reaction to the war.

In some ways, it is textbook corporate social responsibility — a form of self-regulation in which companies make commitments to the broader social good.

In this case, many companies cut ties with Russia in response to the pressure to support Ukraine from governments, investors, consumers, competitors and the general public. Some even made hefty financial sacrifices. McDonald’s, for example, expects a hit of up to US$1.4 billion.

I challenge this move by western corporations because it follows dubious ethical judgments. The apparent “social good” created by businesses exiting Russia is anything but clear and should be examined with a critical eye.

The immoral moral argument
Companies that provide goods and services used directly in the war, including the financial services that fund it, do have an immediate responsibility. It makes sense for certain companies to cease operations in Russia if they directly enable the invasion of Ukraine — financially, technologically or otherwise.

However, producing or consuming a Uniqlo sweater, a Happy Meal or a Renault Clio, has no effect on the war itself. The only impact corporate exits might have are on Russian suppliers, employees and communities. The rights and interests of the Russian stakeholders of western-owned companies do not seem to matter.

Some proponents have compared today’s situation to the boycott of South Africa during apartheid when American and European companies had to implement anti-apartheid laws in their South African manufacturing plants and sales operations.

The corporate exit and boycott in South Africa during that time period was designed to stop companies from being directly complicit in apartheid. It is much harder to establish a similarly direct connection between selling McDonald’s burgers or Lego toys and the Russian invasion of Ukraine.

Read more- https://theconversation.com/companies-leaving-russia-are-caving-to-public-pressure-not-actually-making-a-difference-182746