If the great Australian dream is the security of owning your home, the election campaign might feel like waking late to discover the alarm on your phone has been ringing loudly for some time.

There are a lot of problems in housing.

For people who rent, vacancies are at record lows just as Australia re-opens borders largely shut since the COVID pandemic took off in 2020. 

For people paying mortgages, the Reserve Bank has just lifted rates and is set to keep doing so, making mortgage repayments more expensive.

For people trying to buy, prices are cooling after rocketing up in recent years, but higher interest rates will reduce what banks can lend you.

Even though the market has started slowing more recently, house prices nationally have soared 16.1 per cent over the past 12 months, according to April data from PropTrack.

Sydney and Hobart house prices fell for that month (by 0.1 per cent and 0.4 per cent respectively) but still charted double-digit growth for the year.

Regional areas saw a 23 per cent lift in prices to April. And some coastal centres have experienced astonishing jumps since the pandemic began.

Rents are up too. Capital city asking rents jumped 11.8 per cent in the year to April. Brisbane recorded the largest yearly jump in combined house and unit asking rents, up 15.2 per cent.

The Bureau of Statistics inflation figures — which look at all existing capital city rentals, not just properties currently advertised for lease – show a much smaller 1 per cent increase, although this is expected to catch up as more existing leases are renewed at higher rents.

Both major parties are promising to invest more in social housing.

Labor’s $10 billion Housing Australia Future Fund aims to build 30,000 new homes in its first five years.

Returns from this initial investment would be provided to an existing body, the National Housing Finance and Investment Corporation (NHFIC), to pay for social and affordable housing projects.

Labor says funding would build 20,000 social housing properties in its first five years, with 4,000 allocated to women fleeing family violence and older women at risk of homelessness. A further 10,000 properties would be "affordable" for frontline workers like police and cleaners.