 Final Fantasy 7: The First Soldier is heading to its fourth season as developers Ateam and Square Enix have add a new limited time format:  Variant Mode, which gives players the chance to play as two of the most famous faces of the franchise: Bahamut and Sephiroth. For the unversed, The First Soldier is a battle royale set in the Final Fantasy 7 remake universe where up to 75 players battle with weapons and Materia taken from the game. The Variant Mode for Final Fantasy VII The First Soldier is available from August 25 until Season 4 begins on August 31. 
Variant Mode pits nine players controlling the standard Soldier recruits from the battle royale against three "variants" in an asymmetrical battle mode. The recruits must attack two specific objectives on the map in order to win, while the Variants must protect them for the full 15-minute match. Furthermore, the variants possess the ability to transform into various enemies of Final Fantasy 7 The First Soldier, including Bomb, Cactuar, Slug-Ray, Bahamut and Sephiroth. Players resurrect after being defeated, and the Variant team can choose a new transformation before respawning.
Furthermore, the devs have also unveiled an Advanced Shinra Pack for The First Soldier, which includes skins based on Weiss and Nero from FFVII Remake Intergrade. Additionally, the cosmetic packs include skins resembling Rosso and Shelke from Dirge of Cerberus: Final Fantasy VII, as well as a few other accessories. Players can purchase the packs using either 300 Shinra Credits or using five Advanced Shinra Pack Tickets. The cosmetics will be available until August 31, 2022, at 01:59 UTC.
Notably, the Weiss skin has a special feature that unlocks new effects with every duplicate skin obtained. The second level will unlock the alternate skin “Weiss Empowered” with the third level unlocking a new kill effect titled “The Immaculate”, which activates every time the players kill or otherwise incapacitate an opponent. Both the Weiss and Nero skins are available for the male and female character body types. Rosso and Shelke, however, are only available to equip for female characters.