“Mama I’m in Ukraine. There is a real war raging here. I’m afraid. We’re bombing all of the cities, even civilians…” Ukraine’s Ambassador to the UN Sergiy Kyslytsya read this text at an emergency special session on Russia’s invasion as it continued attacks in eastern Ukraine. Offering insight into the war front, he said the message was sent by a young Russian soldier in response to his mother’s query whether he was getting trained in the Russian army and why he hadn’t responded to her repeated calls or messages. His mother was under the impression that he was in a training session in Crimea.

Kyslytsya was reading out what he claimed were the final text message by the Russian soldier, found on his phone shortly after his death. The ambassador showed the screenshot of the message in Russia at the UN meeting which also expressed soldiers like this were “told that they [Ukrainians] would welcome us”, but in reality they found Ukrainians falling “under the armoured vehicles” not allowing them pass and calling them “fascists”.    

While it hasn’t been possible to authenticate the texts, and Russian authorities have vehemently opposed its existence, the exchange between the young Russian and his mother points to the fact that Kremlin had tricked many youngsters pushing them into the war. Most of them were conscripts who were made to believe that they are going to liberate oppressed Ukrainians who’d embrace them as heroes, far from offering any resistance.  

From the very beginning of this war Ukrainian officials, and also their President Voldymyr Zelensky, stressed that Putin’s officers have duped misguided young conscripts into fighting. The Russian propaganda had convinced them, their family members and millions of other ordinary citizens that people in eastern Ukraine need to be rescued from their tormentors at Kyiv, aided by the West or NATO members.  

Even British intelligence has revealed from intercepted radio messages between conscripts and their central commanders that the soldiers in the frontline were in complete disarray. They are greenhorns, ill-equipped and ill-fed, not ready for such a bloody battle.  

READ MORE: 

https://www.telegraph.co.uk/world-news/2022/03/01/russian-troops-disarray-crying-combat-radio-messages-reveal/

https://www.thetimes.co.uk/article/russian-captive-soldiers-cry-for-their-mothers-ckwrhh0w2

https://time.com/6152662/ukraine-appeals-to-russian-soldiers-families/