A common complaint we have as we grow older, is that of swollen joints. We don’t realize that this is due to certain habits we’ve imbibed in our daily lives, which lead to inflammation in some parts of the body. Food plays a huge role. So, are there any foods that cause water retention?


Water retention or edema, is caused by the build-up of fluid in the tissues of our body. Water retention is the primary cause of swelling in parts of the body such as legs, feet, ankles, under the eyes, etc. It occurs due to many reasons: excess consumption of salt, alcohol, a lack of fibre in the diet and insufficient consumption of nutrient-rich food, side effects of certain medications and a sedentary lifestyle.


Swollen feet, inflammation and bloating are very common symptoms of water retention, which shouldn’t be ignored or dismissed. They are nature’s way of signalling us that we could have contracted some infection, injury or are lacking fibres in our diet, leading to a build up of toxins in the system. There are a certain variety or combination of foods that cause water retention, and lead to a lot of inflammation. For example, combining fruits, vegetables and grains together leads to bloating and swelling in the body.

Here are some foods that may cause water retention or swelling

1. Fruits combined with veggies and grains

Fruits shouldn’t be eaten along with vegetables and grains. When fruit is consumed, we should observe a gap of 2 hours before we eat our meals. Eating a fruit after a meal is not recommended even in traditional Indian medicine like Ayurveda. Fruits digest faster than vegetables and grains, when we are not mindful and combine all of them, it results in bloating and swelling in the body. Inflation and swelling also occur when we are on an unhealthy diet.

2. Sugar, white flour and oil

Sugar, white flour, and oil are all refined, which means the most intelligent ingredient ‘fibre’ is missing. 


Read more - https://www.healthshots.com/healthy-eating/nutrition/reduce-foods-that-cause-water-retention-from-your-diet/