There are a lot of contraceptive methods in India but the greatest birth control is the one that helps in preventing pregnancy in the most effective way while also fitting into your lifestyle. The most efficient strategy to prevent pregnancy is to use a male condom in conjunction with another kind of birth control. What is “best” among birth control methods varies from individual to individual. It is possible that what works for one person may not work for another. And your requirements may shift over time.

*Which method is the best to prevent pregnancy?*

The only guaranteed way to not get pregnant is to avoid having penis-in-vagina intercourse or engaging in any sexual activity that could result in sperm landing on a vulva or in a vagina (this is called abstinence). However, abstinence may not be practical for everyone.
If you plan on having vaginal sex, the best strategy to avoid pregnancy is to use a combination of a highly effective birth control technique (such as an IUD or implant) with a condom.
Birth control methods vary in their effectiveness. Implants and IUDs are the most effective birth control methods for preventing pregnancy; they’re also the most convenient and foolproof.
Other hormonal contraceptive methods such as the combination birth control pills or the progestin-only pills, ring, patch, or shot, are similarly effective at preventing pregnancy when used properly. 
It’s critical to make sure you’re using your birth control correctly. This means that you must remember to take your pill, change your ring, and receive your shot regularly, or your risk of becoming pregnant would be high. 

*Here’s a bonus!*

You can gain more pregnancy prevention power by using birth control and a condom simultaneously, regardless of whatever method you use. If you have any doubts regarding birth control, you can make use of the Pinky Promise App where we have a gynaecologist verified chatbot and you can even chat anonymously on our chatrooms for free!


Sources: 

1-https://www.healthline.com/health/birth-control/methods
2-https://www.webmd.com/sex/birth-control/best-effective-birth-control
3-https://www.plannedparenthood.org/learn/teens/stds-birth-control-pregnancy/whats-best-kind-birth-control