1:10 pm
Trump urges fans to "walk down Pennsylvania Avenue" and march to the Capitol as he concludes his speech at the Ellipse. At about the same time, Hutchinson receives a phone from House Minority Leader Kevin McCarthy, a California Republican and Trump supporter, who scolds her for letting Trump to visit the Capitol.

1:19 pm
Trump enters the White House after leaving it. Trump becomes agitated and requests to be driven to the Capitol on the brief trip back from the Ellipse, but members of his security crew refuse to take him there.

Around 2 pm
As some of the first rioters enter the building, the Capitol is placed under lockdown. Back at the White House, Cipollone informs Meadows that Trump must act to put an end to the unrest.  "Something needs to be done or people are going to die."

2:13 pm
During a discussion over a GOP opposition to Biden's electoral votes from Arizona, the Senate adjourns unexpectedly.

2:14 pm
QAnon supporter Doug Jensen threatens US Capitol Police Officer Eugene Goodman in one of the most notorious scenes of the outbreak. Goodman cleverly directs Jensen away from the neighboring Senate floor.

Around 2:15 p.m.
Cipollone once more advises Meadows that Trump should step in at the White House. In response, Meadows claims that Trump "doesn't want to do anything" about the violence and that he supports the rioters' demand that Pence be hanged.

2:24 p.m.
Trump slams Pence in a tweet for not carrying out his illegal plan to rig the election while in charge of the joint session of Congress.

2:28 p.m.
Rep. Marjorie Taylor Greene, a Republican from Georgia and ardent Trump supporter, texts Meadows urging him to "tell the President to calm people."

2:30 p.m.
The Secret Service evacuates Vice President Pence from the Senate floor, where he was presiden, as the US Capitol Police begin evacuating lawmakers from the House and Senate chambers.

2:32 p.m.
Fox News host Laura Ingraham, who promoted many of Trump's election lies, texts Meadows that "the president needs to tell people in the Capitol to go home."

Source: https://edition.cnn.com/2022/07/10/politics/jan-6-us-capitol-riot-timeline/index.html