The Taliban will not allow Afghans to leave the country even if people want to go. And The Taliban have a reason—They are concerned about Afghans who were evacuated ever since they took over the country “living in very bad conditions” in foreign countries.

“The government has the responsibility to protect the people, so this will be stopped until we get the assurance that their lives will not be endangered,” Zabihullah Mujahid told a news conference. (https://www.france24.com/en/live-news/20220228-taliban-ban-afghans-from-evacuating-amid-massive-security-sweep)

In the meantime, there has been a backlash against the restrictions. Some social media users say that this was equal to "hostage-taking.” Some politicians who oppose the Taliban have also said that this could have a negative impact on the Afghan Taliban which has been in talks with the Western governments for more aid in recent weeks.

There are several families within Afghanistan which have permission to stay in different countries of the world, including the United States, but they may no longer be able to leave the country. Although flights have not been flying with evacuees since December, many families travel to Pakistan on road to get out of the country. Even that could be stopped by the Taliban. “The international community will not keep silent about it and will show a strong reaction to this,” Ishaq Gailani, leader of the Afghanistan Solidarity Movement, was quoted as saying by Tolo News, a leading television channel in the country. (https://tolonews.com/afghanistan-176912)

Many netizens are criticising the regime, saying that if it offers jobs, security and education, no Afghan would like to leave the country and go in search of safety and livelihood. 

The ban against the citizens leaving the country comes when The Taliban fighters have been going house to house in search of “traitors” and “criminals”. The result of these searches would be known only when the people who are arrested are punished.

Read more:

News story:
https://www.asianews.it/news-en/Kabul:-Taliban-suspends-evacuations-55245.html