Jammu and Kashmir Lt Governor Manoj Sinha on Monday said that J&K is on the move and strikes, stone pelting and protests have become things of the past.

He called upon every section of the society to make their valuable contribution to a happy, peaceful & prosperous Union Territory.

Speaking on the occasion of the 76th Independence Day at sprawling Sher-e-Kashmir Cricket Stadium surrounded by the mighty Chinar trees amid drizzle in Srinagar after hoisted the tricolor, the LG said that India want peace and welfare of entire humanity but are also ready to defend our freedom and sovereignty and integrity with full zeal.

He said a befitting reply is being given to those who are trying to mislead our youth with a nefarious proxy war.

“A final blow is being dealt to the terror ecosystem operating at the behest of the neighboring country”, he said and added “We will push the last nail in the coffin of terrorism”.

He said strikes, stone pelting and protests have become things of the past. “I appeal to the 1 crore 30 lakh citizens of Jammu and Kashmir to speak with one voice against terrorism and atrocities on the innocent”, LG Said.

He said that Jammu and Kashmir is soaring to a new height. A strong, peaceful and prosperous union territory is witnessing rapid growth over three successive years, which is unprecedented in the history.

“The nightmare of seven long decades is over and a fear-free, corruption-free new Jammu and Kashmir is emerging to take on the future challenges”, he added.

"J&K is on the move. I call upon every section of the society to make their valuable contribution to a happy, peaceful & prosperous UT. On this Independence Day, let us take a pledge to make J&K Nasha-Mukt, Bhrashtachar-Mukt and Rojgaar-Yukt," Sinha said.
“I salute our beloved tricolor and pay tribute to all those freedom fighters and martyrs, who made the supreme sacrifice to protect this land of Pir-Vaer. My heart is filled with ever-lasting gratitude towards the brave soldiers of Maa Bharti”, LG said.