Just as languages such as Japanese, French and Indonesian are taught as part of the curriculum in Canberra schools, there's a dream the Ngunnawal language will end up being taught the same way.

There are no known fluent speakers of the Ngunnawal language, but Aboriginal elders and their families have spent the past four years working closely with linguists to revitalise it.

"We've gone from just a couple of hundred words … to over 2,500, and we're continuing to revitalise and create words," Ngunnawal elder Caroline Hughes said.

"For instance, yuma — we didn't have a word for hello, but neither did non-Indigenous people.

"And that's been a word that's brought about some form of reconciliation, of bringing people together."

Ms Hughes said Ngunnawal people were unable to speak their language as children, because they were forbidden to do so.

She is determined that will not be the case for the next generation.

"We want to make sure our children and grandchildren can use it every day, and rejoice in that, with the freedom to use it," she said.

Dickson College and Belconnen High School currently offer a unit of study in Indigenous language and cultures, and the ACT government says "all ACT public schools embrace cultural integrity through the teaching of Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander history".

But Ms Hughes hopes the language will one day form a bigger part of the ACT school curriculum and be spoken more broadly within the Canberra community.

"[It] definitely needs to be taught in school sectors: in early childhood, primary, high school, college, universities and at CIT," she said.

"And Ngunnawal people need to be leading that. We need to be the people who are sharing this language and it's part of our development for Ngunnawal people that we have that opportunity."

Workshops encourage Canberrans to 'spread the word'

Members of the Winanggaay Ngunnawal Language Aboriginal Corporation are further spreading the language through workshops as part of this year's ACT Heritage Festival.

Read more
https://www.abc.net.au/news/2022-04-11/ngunnawal-people-determined-to-revitalise-aboriginal-language/100980558

Credit :- ABC