Aurangzeb Naqshbandi

New Delhi: On July 13, Assam chief minister Himanta Biswa Sarma met West Bengal governor Jagdeep Dhankhar and chief minister Mamata Banerjee at the Raj Bhavan in Darjeeling.

Banerjee greeted both with shawls and the three sat for a discussion.

Dhankhar tweeted the pictures and the same were retweeted by Sarma. Banerjee chose to remain silent.

Three days later, Dhankhar was named as the Bharatiya Janata Party's vice-presidential candidate.

Is it some kind of a coincidence? Was the meeting a prelude to the announcement? There is a lot of curiosity and speculation over what transpired in that meeting.

The frequent run-ins between Dhankhar and Banerjee are not hidden from anyone. The two have been at each other's throats ever since Dhankhar took over as the West Bengal governor in July 2019.

Banerjee wanted him out of West Bengal at any cost. He was undoubtedly a thorn in the flesh of Banerjee.

So, why did the BJP leadership shift Dhankhar out of the state when he was literally functioning as the leader of the opposition?

The answer to this question will largely come on July 21 when Banerjee will discuss the vice-presidential elections with her party colleagues.

But for now, Banerjee has been given a breather and how long this ceasefire will prevail could be anybody's guess.

By nominating Dhankhar, the BJP has attempted a big reach out to Jats who along with Sikhs from Punjab were at the forefront of the year-long agitation on Delhi borders by farmers who eventually forced the government to withdraw the three agricultural laws.

Dhankhar, 71, is a Jat from Rajasthan, which goes to polls in November-December next year. Jats constitute around 14% of the total population of Rajasthan.

This explains BJP chief JP Nadda's description of Dhankhar being a 'Kisaan Putra (son of a farmer) while announcing his name on Saturday.

Read the full story here:- https://www.newsdrum.in/analysis/vice-president-election-jagdeep-dhankhar-as-bjp-vp-candidate-the-curious-case-of-himanta-biswa-sarmas-meeting-with-mamata-banerjee-60625.html