1. Suwon: Home To A UNESCO World Heritage Site
Capital of the Gyeonggi province bordering Seoul, Suwon is known for its unique Hwaseong Fortress with its imposing stone walls and impressive archways and this has made it one of the best places to visit in Korea.

2. Seoraksan National Park: A Tentative World Heritage Site
The vivid strokes of nature will greet you every step of the way in the UNESCO protected Seoraksan National Park and is one of the most mesmerizing places to witness autumn in Korea. Being one of the best places to visit in South Korea

3. Andong Hahoe Folk Village: Travel Back In Time
Literally meaning ‘the village enveloped by water’ this charming traditional Korean village located in Andong is a UNESCO World Heritage site. Entering the Hahoe village is like travelling back in time to the simple Korean village way of life displaying local traditions and culture.

4. Upo Marsh: The Largest Inland Wetland In Korea
Considered to be the largest inland wetland in Korea, Upo March is a must-visit site for all tourists and one of the best free tourist attractions in South Korea.

5. Juknokwon: The Slow City
Explore South Kore and enjoy the slow pace life. Also known as the ‘slow city’, Damyang offers a variety of tourist attractions, out of which, Juknokwon cannot be missed for sure. The thick bamboo land that has 8 different trails has 8 unique themes that you can walk through.

6. Boseong Green Tea Field: A Stunning Scenery
With a major 40 % of the total tea produced in Korea being produced at these famous fields, this place is nothing less than a scenic beauty in itself which is also used as a backdrop of many Korean movies and drama shows.

7. Seongsan Sunrise Peak: For Gorgeous Sunset Views
If you are heading to Jeju Island anyway, then you should not miss watching the sunrise at Seongsan Peak. The best of South Korea tourist attractions, this spot has been recognized as a UNESCO World Heritage Site that was formed by the hydrovolcanic eruptions 5000 years ago.