A small printout, stuck to a pillar by a staircase in the mall has two images illustrating how women should now dress - one is an all-encompassing blue burka, the other is a similar black outfit.

"Muslim women should follow the Islamic veil, this is the order of Sharia," reads the text.

The secret girls school defying the Taliban‘It feels like being a woman is a crime here’Who are the Taliban?Girls' tears over chaotic Taliban schools U-turn

Afghanistan is a conservative country and many women already wear the burka or other face veils. In cities like Kabul, however, others simply cover their hair with a scarf, with some relatively recently adding a Covid-style face mask too.

Women's rights activists inside and outside the country reacted with dismay to the new edict, which comes as nearly all teenage girls still haven't been allowed back to school and many female employees have been ordered not to return to their offices.

Years of fragile progress on women's rights looks to be unravelling.

For the moment though, initial enforcement of the new rules on "hijab" seems relatively lax.

But many worry the Taliban will soon grow far stricter - female TV presenters have now been instructed to wear face coverings on air.

Around the city, it's still a common sight to see women with their faces uncovered, and many present at the shopping centre during the visit by the Vice and Virtue inspectors seemed unperturbed by their presence. Others, however, looked on with concern.

"We can distinguish between a woman who has a hijab and who doesn't," Maulvi Fatih tells the BBC. "If a woman is completely crossing the limits, without any modesty or veil, then we will try to find her male guardian."

So far, he says, that hasn't happened, though it's hard to pin down his definition of "crossing the limits" or conceive of what it could mean.

When questioned on what right the ministry has to dictate how Afghan women dress and interpret Islam, Maulvi Fatih replies: "It's not the decree of the ministry, it's the Decree of God.