The British government has approved the extradition of WikiLeaks founder Julian Assange to the United States after he fought for years to remain in the United Kingdom.

For more than 10 years, the US has been trying to put the 50-year-old Australian on trial over the publication of classified documents.

WikiLeaks said it would challenge the order, but what comes next and what avenues can they take?

Why does the US want Mr Assange extradited?

In 2010, WikiLeaks released more than 91,000 documents, most of which were secret US military reports about the war in Afghanistan.

That same year, the publication released some 400,000 classified US military files chronicling the Iraq war from 2004 to 2009.

It’s the largest leak of its kind in US military history.

US authorities want the WikiLeaks founder on espionage charges but his supporters say he was exposing war crimes and abuses of power

Mr Assange had been granted political asylum in the Ecuadorian Embassy in London and lived there from 2012 to 2019.

In 2019, the US Justice department formally asked Britain to extradite Mr Assange to face charges in the United States.

Since April 2019, Mr Assange has been in the Belmarsh maximum-security prison while his case went through the British legal system.

Hearings into his extradition began in February, 2020, but were delayed until September because of the outbreak of the COVID-19 pandemic.

Early last year, the judge in the case concluded that it would be “oppressive” to extradite him to the US because of his frail mental health, saying there was a real risk that he would take his own life.

However, that decision was overturned on an appeal after the United States gave a package of assurances, including a pledge Mr Assange could be transferred to Australia to serve any sentence.

Why is he being extradited now?

Following that court decision, Britain’s interior minister, Home Secretary Priti Patel, signed an order overnight authorising Mr Assange’s extradition.

The Home Office said in a statement that the government had to approve his move to the US because “the UK courts have not found that it would be oppressive, unjust or an abuse of process to extradite Mr Assange”. 

Read more
https://www.abc.net.au/news/2022-06-18/julian-assange-to-be-extradited-to-us/101164152