Emilio Mwai Kibaki, retired third president of independent Kenya who has died , had a rich and multifaceted legacy as a long serving public official.

But it is in education that he left an indelible, but complex, mark.

Kibaki’s personal achievement as a highly accomplished intellectual looms large over his long policy and political career. A graduate of Makerere University College and the London School of Economics, he became a member of parliament at independence in 1963. This set the stage for his appointment in the executive.

He rose from an assistant minister of finance and chairman of the Economic Planning Commission in 1963 to become commerce and industry minister in 1966. He was appointed finance and economic planning minister in 1969, and became vice president in 1978. He held the finance docket until 1982.


President Daniel arap Moi demoted him to health minister in 1988. Three years later Kibaki left the ruling party to form the Democratic Party. He became president in 2002, a position he held until his retirement in 2013.

Kibaki’s influence on education in Kenya became visible in the early years of independence when government spending on education rose steadily. By the 1970s, Kenya devoted 30% of its budget to the sector. As chairman of the economic planning commission, he had a major role in drafting government policy plans that guided the country’s ideological and policy thrust.

Kibaki gave Kenya’s education a free market capitalistic orientation. Documents such as the 1964–70 Development Plan and the 1965 Sessional Paper No. 10 show how he wanted to introduce cost-sharing through a loans scheme for university students.

Many years later, Kibaki’s first major policy pronouncement as president was the declaration in January 2003 that primary education would be free.

While he favoured mass education for all Kenyans, his capitalist orientation paved the way for entry of private providers. Also, although he generally supported provision of free basic education, especially at primary level, he disapproved of fully subsidised higher education. Instead, he favoured cost-sharing and privatisation.

Read more - https://theconversation.com/kibakis-capitalist-outlook-on-education-in-kenya-brought-mixed-results-181848