There is definitely a school of thought which believes that footballers could go on to become great managers. While this is not applicable to all footballers and is an extremely difficult challenge, there is a sense of logic to this thinking. One reason is that footballers are generally good tacticians, especially those who have achieved a lot in the game. There is also the idea that players can learn off great managers and potentially implement this into their own management style. Ole Gunner Solskjaer played and coached at Manchester United under Sir Alex Ferguson and while the end of his tenure at United as a manager proved to be a disaster, he proved he was a competent manager and as United achieved consecutive top-four finishes under the Norwegian. 
#5. James Milner
James Milner is in the twilight of his footballing career and while he has shown no signs of hanging up his boots, this will inevitably happen in the coming years. One reason why Milner could dip his toes into management and be a success in the future is the fact that he has played under numerous managers throughout his career. The most successful spell has been under Jurgen Klopp and Milner has the ability to compare Klopp to the previous managers he has played under and identify the differences that make Klopp such a great manager. The England international has played in the Premier League mostly therefore a role for a side in the league is a strong possibility.
#4. Jordan Henderson
Jordan Henderson has improved massively under Jurgen Klopp at Liverpool and has achieved huge success as captain. We have seen many players improve significantly under Klopp and this could be an area where Henderson can learn from that could possibly make him a competent manager that possesses the ability in improving and getting the best out of players. Henderson has also shown tremendous leadership skills as Liverpool’s most successful spell in recent times has come under his captaincy. This is a quality that can be transferred to management as you must be a leader in order to become a top manager. 