1. It’s Okay That’s Love
.The story revolves around these three along with two other main characters, Jo Dong-min  and Han Kang-woo.
The drama’s plot is woven intrinsically with the psychological issues the protagonists are dealing with and how they struggle to find love in the process. In the 2014 year-end Content Power Index’s (CPI) top 10, It’s Okay, That’s Love ranked third due to great appreciation from viewers.

2. Hello, My Twenties! (Season 2)
The second season of Hello, My Twenties!  explored the journey of Jung Ye-eun  as she fights her way through her demons after getting kidnapped by her abusive ex-boyfriend Go Doo Young. Ye-eun struggles with an eating disorder and PTSD, withdrawing herself from the world altogether. The plot follows her endeavors to break out of the darkness and slowly learn to deal with her past.

3. Be Melodramatic
This 2019 K-Drama tells the story of three 30-year-old best friends who struggle through their individual problems in life together. Among these three, Lee Eun-jung is a documentary director who is battling Persistent Complex Grief Disorder (PCBD), which is also known as traumatic grief or Prolonged Grief Disorder (PGD). Eun-jung lives her day-to-day life almost in a state of hallucination and yet finds enough drive to return to her professional life.

4. Hyde Jekyll, Me
This K-Drama is a rom-com spin  Dr.Jekyll Is Mr. Hyde. Gu Seo-jin is a cold-hearted chaebol who deals with dissociative identity disorder. As the story explores the relationship between Seo-jin and Ha-na, audiences also get a look at the struggles of the male lead to deal with his condition.

5. Just Between Lovers
 This series revolves around the lives of Lee Kang-doo and Ha Moon-soo , who lost their loved ones as kids in a shopping mall collapse. Both the characters struggle with the trauma as adults as well. But what sets this series apart from this list is that it portrays physical disability. The supporting character Kim Wan-jin is a wheelchair-bound webtoon writer and the closest friend of Moon-soo. Through this character, the drama explores discrimination against physically disabled people in society.