During the early phases of the pandemic, and especially during lockdowns and stay-at-home orders, many people reported disruptions to sleep and their sleeping patterns.

As COVID-19 infections have increased, we're again seeing reports of people experiencing poor sleep during and following COVID infection.

Some people report insomnia symptoms, where they struggle to fall or stay asleep, with this commonly being referred to as "coronasomnia" or "COVID insomnia". Others report feeling constantly fatigued, and seemingly can't get enough sleep, with this sometimes being referred to as "long COVID".

So why is our sleep impacted by COVID infections, and why do the impacts differ so much between individuals?

Sleep and immunity

When our body is infected with a virus this causes an immune, or inflammatory response. As part of this response, our cells produce proteins such as cytokines in order to help fight the infection.\

Some of these cytokines are also involved in promoting sleep and are known as "sleep regulatory substances". In this way, when there are more of these cytokines in our bodies this tends to make us sleepier.

It gets a little more complicated, though, because like many things, sleep and immunity are bidirectional.

This means sleep, in particular poor sleep, can impact immune function, and immune function can impact sleep.

During sleep, especially during the non-rapid eye movement stage slow-wave sleep (a deep stage of sleep), there is an increase in the production of some cytokines. As such, sleep increases the immune response which may increase our chance of survival from the infection.

While the changes in sleep with viral infections such as COVID-19 are likely to be due to our bodies' immune response, it's possible the sleep disturbances, such as the fragmented sleep and waking frequently, may lead to poor sleep habits, such as using phones or electronic devices at night.

Poorer night-time sleep may also lead to some people having more frequent daytime naps, which could further impact night-time sleep.

And taking longer to fall asleep or waking up at night and struggling to fall back asleep can lead to frustrations around not being able to sleep.