The new release of that phone, or the upcoming offers which has all you want or maybe the snack you want to have a stock of for your movie night, that a little more feeling makes us happier when we get it. 

Eventually the new things we bring with the excitement and happiness starts fading off and our brain looks for what next. 

As per a new research using a statistical modeling, the desires have given an evolutionary advantages to the early humans. In the world we live in reality which could lead to overconsumption and decreased happiness. 

Hedonic treadmill is a phenomenon which can lock one in the cycle of unhappiness. This means that happiness that's bought on by achievement usually exist for a brief period of time. 

“People quickly adapt to life improvements and it becomes their ‘new normal.’ This highlights how tricky happiness can be,” said Sheila M. Dowd, PhD, an associate professor of psychiatry and behavior sciences at Rush University Medical Center in Chicago. 

“As expectations of ourselves about our own… achievement grow, it becomes increasingly difficult to reach a new level of achievement and therefore more difficult to have the positive feelings of such achievement,” said Dr. Jonathan L. Kaplan, an assistant professor of psychiatry and internal medicine who’s also at Rush University Medical Center. 

“Similarly, the novelty of a new achievement is important. The first time a certain achievement is attained it is highly rewarding; however, there is a diminishing return for the same type of achievement in the future,” he added. 

Individuals who are sure and clear about what they want every time is more better than those who are unsure of what they want, said Dr. Danesh Alam, the medical director of behavioral health. 

He advised that “preparation around choices, meditation, self-care, and a self-awareness as to your own limits, coping style, and personality are all important for making sure your choices are aligning with who you are.” 


Sources - Healthline