Union Home Minister Amit Shah congratulated Dhankar and says he would prove to be a superb Constitutional protector.

"I have no doubt that Dhankhar ji would prove to be an excellent steward of the Constitution in his roles as vice president and chairman of the Rajya Sabha. He has my congratulations for this success. I also want to thank the NDA allies, other parties, and leaders for supporting Dhankhar Ji under Modi ji's leadership". 

Margaret Alva, a vice presidential candidate for the opposition, congratulated Jagdeep Dhankar, a candidate for the NDA, on becoming India's next vice president. "Greetings on Mr. Dhankhar's appointment as vice president! I want to thank the MPs from all parties and the opposition leaders who supported me in this election. And thanks to everyone who volunteered during our short but intense campaign "She spoke.

Alva continued, "Unfortunately, some opposition parties chose to directly or indirectly support the BJP, in an attempt to derail the idea of a united opposition. This election was an opportunity for the opposition to work together, to leave the past behind, and to develop trust among themselves.

"In my opinion, these parties and their leaders have compromised their own credibility by doing this. The election is concluded. The fight to defend our Constitution, advance our democracy, and restore the honour of Parliament will never end. "Jai Hind," "Alva went on to say.

Rahul Gandhi also congratulated Dhankar on his victory on Twitter and thanked Alva for delicately and honourably expressing the sentiment of the combined Opposition.
I'd like to congratulate Shri Jagdeep Dhankhar on becoming India's 14th vice president. Gandhi stated, "We are grateful to Smt. Alva Margaret ji for gracefully and dignifiedly expressing the spirit of the joint Opposition.

Defence Minister Rajnath Singh stated "His long public life, wide experience, & great awareness of people's issues would undoubtedly benefit the nation," He'll be a fantastic VP and RS Chairman, in my opinion.