The richness and goodness infused in the vegetable cauliflower is beyond our ability to imagine. It has a mild flavour with a satisfying texture. Which is gluten free, plant based and ideal for refined carb conscious eaters. 

"Cauliflower is grown seasonally in many climates and locations, so it's easy to find and budget-friendly—and you can also grow it yourself quite easily," says Sharon Palmer, MSFS, RDN. "It comes in different colors, like pink, orange, purple, and green." 

And in terms of nutritional value, although bright and colorful veggies typically get all the attention, don't let cauliflower's (often) pale complexion fool you: This member of the cruciferous family is loaded with nutritional benefits, too. 

Cauliflower Benefits

•Cauliflower is fiber-rich.

Recent research estimates that 95 percent of Americans don't get enough fiber in their diets (yikes). Fiber helps keep you feeling full and satisfied, maintains healthy digestion, and regulates blood sugar levels, and meeting your daily requirements can also reduce cholesterol and blood pressure. Specifically, cauliflower is a good source of insoluble fiber, which helps keep things moving in your digestive system. 

• Cauliflower contains vitamins for immunity, blood clotting, bone health, and more.

One cup of cauliflower provides over 75 percent of the daily value of vitamin C, which means your immune system, metabolism, and nervous system get the boost they need. It also contains 20 percent of the daily value of vitamin K that's essential for bone formation and blood clotting. A cup of cauliflower also has impressive amounts of vitamin B6, folate, and potassium.

• Cauliflower has antioxidant power to fight inflammation.

The veggie's anti-inflammatory compounds help the body reduce free radicals and lower oxidative stress that increase the risk for chronic diseases like heart disease, type 2 diabetes, and cancer, Palmer says. Eating foods high in antioxidants and anti-inflammatory agents as part of a healthy diet, like cauliflower, can help prevent and mitigate chronic inflammation and protect your cells.

Sources - https://www.realsimple.com/health/nutrition-diet/cauliflower-benefits