The Prime Minister, Shri Narendra Modi today inaugurated Bundelkhand Expressway at Kaitheri village in Orai tehsil of Jalaun, Uttar Pradesh. Chief Minister of Uttar Pradesh, Yogi Adityanath, State Ministers, People’s representatives were among those present on the occasion.

Addressing the gathering, the Prime Minister recalled the glorious traditon of hard-work, valor and cultural richness of Bundelkhand region. He said “the land that produced countless warriors, where the devotion for India flows in blood, the prowess and hard work of local sons and daughters have always brightened the name of the country.”

Talking about the difference that will be brought about by the new expressway, the Prime Minister said “the distance from Chitrakoot to Delhi has been reduced by 3-4 hours by the Bundelkhand Expressway, but its benefit is much more than that. This expressway will not only give speed to vehicles here, but it will accelerate the industrial progress of entire Bundelkhand.”

The Prime Minister emphasized that gone are the days when such great infrastructure and facilities were limited to large cities and selected areas of the countries. now , under the spirit of Sabka Saath Sabka Vikas, even the remote and neglected areas are witnessing unprecedented connectivity. He continued that because of the expressway, the region will see many opportunities of development, employment and self employment. He said that connectivity projects in Uttar Pradesh are connecting many areas which have been ignored in the past. For example, Bundelkhand Expressway passes through seven districts, viz. Chitrakoot, Banda, Mahoba, Hamirpur, Jalaun, Auraiya and Etawah. Similarly, other Expressways are connecting every nook and corner of the state, leading to a situation where, “every corner of Uttar Pradesh is ready to move forward with new dreams and new resolutions”. The Double-Engine Government is working in that direction with renewed viogour, he said.

Regarding improving air connectivity in the state, the Prime Minister said that new airports terminals came up in Prayagraj. Kushinagar got new airport and work is going on in Jewar, NOIDA for a new airport and many more cities are being connected with air travel facilities. This will give a push to tourism and other development opportunities, he said.