Scout Report-Josip Juranovic
Manchester United’s right-back problem is well known. With Diego Dalot finding his hot run of form under Erik Ten Hag, a deputizing himself as a starter for the first-team squad hence displacing Aaron Wan Bissaka, who has lost his form and is currently benched by the Portuguese. AWB might be sold to his ex-club Crystal Palace if the right offer comes for him. But before selling him United needs to buy his replacement. Having been linked to Kieran Tripper who joined Newcastle United, and though United was able to buy Tyrell Malacia for the left-back position to give competition to Luke Shaw and Alex Tellis who is sent on loan to Sevilla, they are yet to find a suitable replacement for Aaron Wan Bissaka, a player who can bring quality to the team. Erik Ten Hag has been known for buying players whom he can trust, and he knows will get Manchester United back to the fighting for the crown. 
One such player, who has been linked to United’s plethora of players, but this time it comes from Scotland(ay Matey!!), Celtic. His name is Josip Juranovic.
He hails from Zagreb, Croatia, and started his career in the third-tier Dubrava. He won the Croatian leg of the Nike chance competition, hereby winning the spot in the Nike Academy spot in 2014. However, he was unsuccessful in making the five-person side team, he returned back to his team, but he caught the eyes of HNK Hajduk Split. 
He signed a three-and-a-half-year contract with Split in 2015. Initially, he joined their B side team but was gradually moved to the first team by April month. 
In Scotland, there are big clubs like Celtic, Rangers, Aberdeen and so on. Steven Gerrard who was an ex-Liverpool legend managed Rangers before moving to Aston Villa. But that’s for another time. Juranovic joined Celtic FC on a five-year deal. He usually is deployed as a right-back, but in the introductory stages, including his debut against the Rangers, he was deployed as a left-back. He won his Scottish Premiership.