Racism is prevalent in the society, there is no denying that. And it is the sad truth, but believing that America is systemically racist is misguiding and anti-american. When activists declare that some people are "privileged" because of their skin colour, they are implying that they should repent for their inherent characteristics and incur repercussions as a result of their race. Some public school administrators have separated pupils for school activities based on skin colour, which has resulted in litigation in Colorado and Illinois, to mention a few states.

Ideas like this gave birth to theories like CRT, something that has proven to be dividing people furthermore on the basis of race. A freedom of information request in Virginia's Loudoun County revealed that "anti-racist" trainings in the county's schools taught teachers to reject "colour blindness," address their "Whiteness (e.g., white privilege)," and recognise that "independence and individual achievement" are racist hallmarks of "white individualism" (as is a commitment to "self-expression, individual thinking, personal choice").

It is neither racist nor unreasonable to dismiss such claims as being incompatible with generally held American principles. These dogmas reflect an educational perspective that is half-baked college Marxism and half-baked racial caricature.

Everything is undermined if we lose the concept of individual responsibility. Why even strive if all success in life is due to "privilege" and all failure is due to "oppression"? It is a type of nihilism. Nothing is important. This undermines the concept of personal initiative as a whole.
Why should our children appreciate our country if we educate them that it was based on slavery? Why should they go to such lengths for it? And why bother trying to improve it in the first place? When the house's foundation is rotten, why try to fix it?

We all here need equality, which is not far away and by making such claims that "America is based on a racist structure" we do nothing more than make the division worse.