A former Yale administrative employee pleaded guilty on Monday of defrauding the university of more than $40.5 million by reselling electronics purchased with school funds over at least an eight-year period, according to court documents.

Jamie Petrone-Codrington, 42, who was director of finance and lead administrator at the medical school's department of emergency medicine, used the funds "for various personal expenses, including expensive cars, real estate and travel," according to a press release from the US Attorney's Office in Connecticut.

This includes three Connecticut properties that she owns or co-owns, according to prosecutors.

Petrone-Codrington also filed false tax returns from 2013 to 2016, where she claimed the costs of the stolen equipment as business expenses, and failed to file any tax returns from 2017 to 2020. That cost the US Treasury $6 million, according to the press release.

Petrone-Codrington, who was arrested in September 2021, was charged with wire fraud and filing a false tax return. She faces up to 23 years in prison, according to court documents. She is currently out of jail on a $1 million bail bond and is set to be sentenced in June.

Her attorney, Frank Riccio, told CNN his client has "accepted responsibility for her actions and is remorseful."

"She now looks forward towards sentencing and repairing some of the damage that has been caused," he said.

The court has also ordered Petrone-Codrington to pay restitution in the amount of $40.5 million to Yale and more than $6 million to the Internal Revenue Service for failing to file and filing a false tax return.

The FBI launched an investigation into Petrone-Codrington in August 2021 after information was provided by the university and found that as early as 2013 she started ordering electronics, like Microsoft Surface Pro tablet computers, with the medical school's university funds, according to the plea. She then sold them to a third-party business, which would direct funds of the electronics it sold back to Petrone-Codrington via Maziv Entertainment LLC, a company in which she is a principal, according to the press release.

Read more
https://edition.cnn.com/2022/03/31/business/yale-jamie-petrone-codrington/index.html