Parliamentary group leader and AfD deputy, Beatrix von Storch, went on a transmisogynist tirade in Bundestag, specifically targeting MP Tessa Ganserer by deadnaming and misgendering her in front of the parliament on Thursday, over a debate on International Women’s Day.

“They claim gender has nothing to do with biology. And everyone can somehow determine their own gender,” von Storch said, claiming that a majority of the country’s MPs are ‘clinging’ to a concept of “gender ideology.”

Von Storch’s hate speech tirade is a classic example of how language is weaponized to silence transgender folks by dismissing our lived experiences, our right to self-determination, our right to exist.

The term “gender ideology” was concieved decades ago at the Vatican City’s Holy See, as a reaction towards women and queer rights movements, and “developed into a catch-all phrase and short-hand for various anxieties about social change—a Hydra-like global conspiracy myth that, despite being mildly ridiculous and readily exposed, has significant traction,” as described by Human Rights Watch.

The fact that silencing with terms like “gender ideology” are flourishing across the world to attack trans folks, should concern everyone, as they stem from the same patriarchal concepts that’ve been used to establish men as superior to all.

They’re part of a larger movement by people – commonly referred to as trans exclusionary radical ‘feminists’ or TERFs– who label themselves as ‘feminists’ but are transphobic, more specifically, transmisogynistic.

The anti-trans narratives often perpetuated by these folks is a repetition of feminine fragility in privileged cisgender women, and toxic masculinity in men – constructs that restrict and hurt everyone.

Von Storch’s nitpicking at Ganserer’s appearance, highlights that misogyny can be practiced by any gender. The parlimentarian’s gatekeeping of womanhood is a reproduction of a violent binary model that claims that a person’s biological make-up is a pre-determinant of who they will be. 

Many criticized von Storch’s remarks, with Green party leader Britta Haßelmann condemning them as “deepy inhuman”– “Tessa Ganserer is one of us.. None of us have to judge or talk about it or decide how this woman exercises her right to self-determination,” Haßelmann said.