Abstract 

Type 1 diabetes mellitus is seen in approximately 4.5% of children under age of 14 globally. One of the complications of uncontrolled diabetes is diabetic ketoacidosis, which is seen in about 20%–40% of children with type 1 diabetes mellitus by 18 years of age. We describe a case of intestinal ischemia due to diabetic ketoacidosis in a 13-year-old patient with a history of poorly controlled type 1 diabetes mellitus, who ultimately survived and now thriving due to early surgical intervention. 

Introduction 

An otherwise healthy 13-year-old female with known history of type 1 diabetes mellitus presented with severe diabetic ketoacidosis and hypovolemic shock. After her admission to the Pediatric Intensive Care Unit, she became progressively more distended and obtunded. Computed tomography of the abdomen showed pneumatosis of the small intestine and portal venous gas with lactate of 3.1 mmol/L. Decision was made to take the patient urgently to the operating room for exploratory laparotomy. At laparotomy, approximately 245cm of gangrenous jejunum was found, resected, and left in discontinuity. On second look 48 hours later, an additional 95cm of proximal ileum was resected. Patient returned to the operating room for a third look and distal ileum with patchy necrosis was resected. With the remaining small bowel measuring approximately 105cm with intact ileocecal valve the child was re-anastomosed. The child survived this complicated course of operations and recovery, and is now thriving on diabetic controlled diet. 

Conclusion 

Intestinal ischemia due to uncontrolled diabetes and DKA is rare. To our knowledge, this case is one of few cases that showed favorable outcome of DKA-induced intestinal ischemia as a result of early surgical intervention. We highlight the importance of early surgical intervention in these patient population as its associated morbidity and mortality is high if the disease progresses and surgical intervention is delayed. 

Read more - https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S2213576622001361