By Sneha Kumari 

The connected TV ecosystem has now exceeded 10 million homes in India and is expected to reach 40 million homes by 2025. Services such as Jio Fibre, Amazon Fire Stick and Tata Play Binge+ allow access to the content of various producers and OTT apps, through the content aggregation route. 

India’s TV news industry, which has failed to grow its linear TV market share both in terms of viewership and revenue, is now hoping that it’d be able to remain relevant in the connected TV ecosystem. 

Leading news channels such as Aaj Tak, CNBCTV18, ABP, Times Network and TV9 have launched their live streaming platforms on connected TV.

The customisation feature connected TV provides has become an indispensable prospect for younger audiences. 

A report released by RBSA Advisors revealed that India's video OTT market is expected to grow from $ 1.5 billion in 2021 to $ 4 billion in 2025 and further to $ 12.5 billion by 2030 on the back of access to better networks, digital connectivity, and smartphones.

Is Connected TV a new avenue for news channels to make money?

Sudipto Chowdhuri, Chief Revenue Officer/ Executive President, Sales at India TV, said that digital and TV in the first place may appear to be replacing each other but looking at the persisting affordability challenges and the limited number of smartphones in India, the prospect of digital replacing TV and vice-versa appears gloomy. “However, the combination of both of them is ideally viable. From clients' perspective of putting ads, the connected TV can come in handy as it may turn out to be a good idea to get in additional revenues for channels,” he said. 

According to a 2020 estimate by TV monitoring agency Broadcast Audience Research Council (BARC), 210 million Indian households own a TV set, a rise of 6.9% from 197 million in 2018. The number of people watching television has also seen a rise of 6.7%, reaching 892 million from 836 million in 2018.

The notable growth of connected TV in the past few years is a positive signal for advertisers.

Read more
https://bestmediainfo.com/2022/07/news-channels-see-next-bastion-of-growth-in-connected-tv