The Governor-General David Hurley personally lobbied Prime Minister Scott Morrison about a leadership program that was later allocated more than $18 million in federal funding.

Last week's budget included the money for the Australian Future Leaders Foundation Limited, which claimed to have the support of an impressive list of business leaders, was only registered as a charity in April 2021 and is yet to run any leadership programs.

It has been spearheaded by Chris Hartley, who some suggest has used the foundation to climb the social ladder.

The federal opposition is demanding to know why the foundation deserved the funding, which includes $3.6 million this financial year. 

"The government should explain why it is that we've got $18 million paid over to an entity which as yet doesn't seem to be operational," Labor senator Penny Wong said. 

For the past two years Mr Hartley, who is one of the three directors of the foundation and its secretary, gathered support for his leadership program and successfully asked the Governor-General to pitch the proposal to the Prime Minister. 

The ABC has seen correspondence in which Mr Hartley boasted that the Governor-General had given a PowerPoint presentation to Mr Morrison in late 2020.

Mr Hartley said in the correspondence that Mr Morrison was on board with the project and asked his office to press ahead with it.

In another email seen by the ABC, Mr Hartley said that the Prime Minister's Office would "own" the project.

A spokesperson for the Governor-General confirmed there had been "several conversations" between him and Mr Morrison dating back to 2020.

"Ultimately public funding is a decision for the government. The Governor-General will continue to advocate for the program and support it once it is launched."

Promotional material seen by the ABC declared the "Governor-General's Australian Future Leaders Programme" had the in-principle support, including financial and in-kind commitments, of numerous senior leaders from different organisations and groups including Twitter, Tabcorp, Jaguar Land Rover, the Business Council, the Smith Family and Accenture.

Read more
https://www.abc.net.au/news/2022-04-08/governor-general-lobbied-scott-morrison-leadership-program/100975582