By Kalim Ahmed

A photograph of Punjab CM Bhagwant Mann and national convener of the Aam Aadmi Party and Delhi CM, Arvind Kejriwal is viral on social media. In the photograph, everyone around Arvind Kejriwal, including CM Bhagwant Mann are seen walking barefooted while Kejriwal can be seen in shoes.

The photo is accompanied by a Hindi caption that claims that Arvind Kejriwal was wearing shoes at Shaheed Bhagat Singh’s Memorial.

This was shared on Twitter by various BJP workers and sympathisers.

The claim is also viral on Facebook with the same Hindi caption.

Fact-check
We performed a Google reverse image search on the image and came across a news report by Dainik Jagran from March 14, which had the viral photo as a file image. As per the report, both Kejriwal and Mann had visited Darbar Sahib to pay obeisance to god for the massive victory in elections.

We checked the official Facebook page of Arvind Kejriwal and came across a post from March 13, which said that he and Mann had paid their respects at “Shri Darbar Sahib, at Shri Ram Teerth Temple and Durgiana Temple and offered flowers at Jallianwala Bagh Shaheed Memorial”.

Using Google Lens, we performed a reverse image search on one of the photos posted by Kejriwal, which helped us identify the location as the Jallianwala Bagh Memorial based on a news article by The Tribune.

Taking this as a clue we performed a keyword search on YouTube and found various video reports of Kejriwal’s visit to the memorial.

We also found the structure seen in the viral image in a report by News18 Punjab/Haryana/Himachal. The structure appears at 2:10 minutes. This confirms that the viral image was clicked at the Jallianwala Bagh Memorial.

We also checked a video report by ANI where it is clearly visible that Kejriwal is not wearing shoes when he reaches the platform of the memorial. 

Read the full story here:- https://www.altnews.in/false-claim-about-kejriwal-not-wearing-shoes-at-shaheed-bhagat-singh-memorial-viral-on-social-media/?utm_source=website&utm_medium=social-media&utm_campaign=newpost